MRIDULA MUNDALIA AND S. SIVAPRASAD KUMAR

Further, for each |z|= r ≤ RF, one can observe that

$$
\frac{1}{2}\leq1\leq a=\frac{1+Ar^{2}}{1-r^{2}}\leq\frac{1+AR_{\mathfrak{F}}^{2}}{1-R_{\mathfrak{F}}^{2}}<\frac{3}{2}.
$$

(2.6)

Infact inequalities (2.5) and (2.6) yields the inequality,

$$
{\frac{(5+A)r}{1-r^{2}}}\leq{\frac{3}{2}}-{\frac{1+Ar^{2}}{1-r^{2}}},
$$

provided r ≤ RF. Due to Lemma 2.5, it is clear that the disc |u− a|< R lies in ΩLP . Further, at z0 = RF 2/(1− the function fF(z) defined as fF(z) = z(1 + z) z)3+A acts as the extremal function.

Corollary 2.18. Let f ∈ FLP , then sharp F1− radius and F2− radius for the class FLP are respectively given as √ (i) RF1(FLP) = 17− 4 ≈ 0.123... √ (ii) RF2(FLP) = ( 41− 6)/5 ≈ 0.080... √ √ Theorem 2.19. Let δ = (π β − 1/ 2), where 1 < β < 3/2, and suppose f ∈ FLP , thenM(β)− radius is − 2|sec δ/(tan2 δ)|. rβ = 1 + 2 (cot δ)

))2 ))2 Proof. From Lemma 2.1, it can be viewed that √ √

$$
\mathrm{Re}\,{\cal L}{\cal P}(z)\le{\cal L}{\cal P}(-r)=1-\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\frac{1+i\sqrt{r}}{1-i\sqrt{r}}\right)\right)^{2}=1+\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\tan^{-1}\left(\frac{2\sqrt{r}}{1-r}\right)\right)^{2}.
$$

′(z)/f(z) As f ∈ FLP , then assume that zf = p(z). Due to the above inequality Re p(z) ≤ LP(−r). More- √ over, LP(−r) ≤ β provided r ≤ rβ , where rβ is the root of the equation (1−β)π2+2(tan−1(2 r/(1− r)))2 =

0 for 1 < β < 3/2. Equality here occurs for the function f0 ∈ A, given by (1.2).

If f(z) and g(z) be analytic functions in |z|< r, then f(z) is said to be majorized by g(z), denoted as f(z)  g(z), in |z|< r, if |f(z)|≤ |g(z)| in |z|< r. Equivalently, a function f(z) is said to be be majorized by g(z), if there exists an analytic Ψ(z) with |Ψ(z)|≤ 1 in D and f(z) = Ψ(z)f(z) for all z ∈ D. For recent update on majorization for starlike and convex function, see [4, 5]. In the next theorem, we determine sharp majorization radius for the class FLP .

Theorem 2.20. Let f ∈ A and suppose that g ∈ FLP . Further assume that f(z) is majorized by g(z) in D, i.e f(z) g(z), then for |z|≤ rm ≈ 0.4220 . . . ,

$$
|f^{\prime}(z)|\leq|g^{\prime}(z)|,
$$

where rm is the unique positive root of the following equation √ √

$$
2\pi^{2}r-(1-r^{2})(\pi^{2}-2(\log((1+{\sqrt{r}})/(1-{\sqrt{r}})))^{2})=0.
$$

(2.7)

√ ≤ ≈ Proof. Suppose 0 r < r∗ = tanh2(π/2 2) 0.646 . . . , then due to Remark 2.9 we conclude that, g ∈ FLP qualifies to be a Ma-Minda type function in |z|< r∗. Further let w(z) be a Schwarz function in D with w(0) = 0, then by definition of subordination,

$$
\frac{zg^{\prime}(z)}{g(z)}=\mathcal{LP}(w(z)).
$$

∣∣∣∣ Note that for each |z|= r < 1, the inequality |LP(w(z))|≤ |LP(r)| holds. Now for |z|= r < r∗, we obtain∣∣∣∣

$$
\left|{\frac{g(z)}{g^{\prime}(z)}}\right|={\frac{|z|}{|{\mathcal{LP}}(z)|}}\leq{\frac{r}{1-|{\mathcal{P}}_{0}(r)|}}={\frac{r}{{\mathcal{LP}}(r)}}.
$$

r1−

(2.8)

As f(z) is majorized by g(z) in D, we find from the definition of majorization,

$$
f(z)=\psi(z)g(z).
$$

Upon differentiating the above equality and suitable rearrangement of terms, we obtain

$$
f^{\prime}(z)=g^{\prime}(z)\left(\psi^{\prime}(z)\frac{g(z)}{g^{\prime}(z)}+\psi(z)\right).
$$

.

(2.9)