MRIDULA MUNDALIA AND S. SIVAPRASAD KUMAR

[20] Mendiratta, R., Nagpal, S., Ravichandran, V.: A subclass of starlike functions associated with left-half of the lemniscate of Bernoulli. Int. J. Math. 25(9), 17 (2014)

[21] Mundalia, M., Kumar, S. S.: On a subfamily of starlike functions related to Hyperbolic Cosine function. (2022) preprint arXiv:2201.05811

[22] Peng, Z., Zhong, G.: Some properties for certain classes of univalent functions defined by differential inequalities, Acta Math. Sci. Ser. B (Engl. Ed.) 37B, 69-78 (2017)

[23] Raina, R. K., Sokól, J.: Some properties related to a certain class of starlike functions. C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Paris 353(11), 973-978 (2015)

[24] Ravichandran, V., Rønning F. Shanmugam, T. N.: Radius of convexity and radius of starlikeness for some classes of analytic functions. Complex Var. Theory Appl. 33(1-4), 265-280 (1997)

[25] Ravichandran, V., Silverman, H., Hussain Khan, M., Subramanian, K. G.: Radius problems for a class of analytic functions. Demonstratio Math. 39(1), 67-74 (2006)

[26] Rønning F.: Uniformly convex functions and a corresponding class of starlike functions, Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 118(1), 189-196 (1993)

[27] Sokól, J., Stankiewicz, J.: Radius of convexity of some subclasses of strongly starlike functions. Zeszyty Nauk. Politech. Rzeszowskiej Mat. No. 19, 101-105 (1996)

[28] Uralegaddi, B. A., Ganigi, M. D., Sarangi, S. M.: Univalent functions with positive coefficients. Tamkang J. Math. 25(3), 225-230 (1994)

[29] Wani, L. A., Swaminathan, A.: Starlike and convex functions associated with a nephroid domain, Bull. Malays, Math. Sci. Soc. 44(1), 79-104 (2021)

Department of Applied Mathematics, Delhi Technological University, Delhi–110042, India Email address: mridulamundalia@yahoo.co.in

Department of Applied Mathematics, Delhi Technological University, Delhi–110042, India Email address: spkumar@dce.ac.in