NON-UNIVALENT FUNCTIONS AND A PARABOLIC REGION

Theorem 2.7. Let 0 ≤ α < 1 and 0 ≤ γ ≤ γα, where γα = tanh2(π 1− α/2 2). If p ∈ PLP , then p ∈ Pα, i.e p(z) is a Carathéodory function of order α, in the disc |z|< γα.

Proof. Since p ∈ PLP , then by definition of subordination and Schwarz Lemma, there exists an analytic function w(z) with |w(z)|≤ |z|< 1 and w(0) = 0, such that p(z) = LP(w(z)). Suppose w(z) = Reiθ (−π < θ ≤ π), then |w(z)|= R ≤ |z|= r < 1. On applying Lemma 2.1 for p ∈ PLP , we get Re p(z) ≥ LP(r). Further √ √ p ∈ PLP is Carathéodory of order α (0 ≤ α < 1) if LP(r) ≥ α, provided r ≤ γα = tanh2(π 1− α/2 2).

The function f0(z) given by (1.2), is the extremal.

′(z)/f(z) Upon replacing p(z) with zf in Theorem 2.7, we deduce the next result.

Corollary 2.8. Let 0 ≤ α < 1 and 0 ≤ γ ≤ γα, where γα is as defined in Theorem 2.7. If f ∈ FLP , then f(z) is starlike of order α in the disc |z|< γα. This result is sharp.

Remark 2.9. Put α = 0 in Theorem 2.7, we get a sharp P− radius for the class PLP . Infact for the class √ FLP , Corollary 2.8 gives sharp radius of starlikeness γ0 = tanh2(π/2 2). Moreover, r = γ0 < 1 serves as

the sharp radius of univalence for the class FLP .

Theorem 2.10. Assume 0 < α ≤ 1, then the sharp S∗(1 + αz)− radius for the class FLP is the unique √ √ 2(π )2 positive root rα = tanh α/2 2) of the equation √ √

$$
2\left(\log((1+{\sqrt{r}})/(1-{\sqrt{r}}))\right)^{2}-\alpha\pi^{2}=0,
$$

(2.3)

where α is the radius of the disc {ω : |ω − 1|< α} . ))2 Proof. In view of Remark 2.4, for the circle |z|= r < 1, we have √

$$
\operatorname*{max}_{|z|\leq r<1}|\mathcal{LP}(z)|=1-\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\frac{1+\sqrt{r}}{1-\sqrt{r}}\right)\right)^{2}=\mathcal{LP}(r),
$$

(2.4)

√

which is a decreasing function. Infact LP(r) = 0 if and only if r = tanh2(π/2 2) ≈ 0.6469 . . . . As f ∈ FLP , then there exists a Schwarz’s function w(z) with w(0) = 0, so that

$$
\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)}=\mathcal{LP}(w(z)).
$$

Assume w(z) = Reiθ where R ≤ r < 1. Now observe that for 0 < α ≤ 1, equation (2.4) yields

$$
|{\cal LP}(z)-1|\le|{\cal LP}(R)-1|\le|{\cal LP}(r)-1|=|{\cal P}_{0}(r)|\le\alpha,
$$

√ √ provided r ≤ tanh2(π α/2 2) = rα. Further, at z0 = rα, the function f0(z) (defined in (1.2)) such that ′(z)/f0(z) zf0 = LP(z), works as the extremal function.

As a consequence of Theorem 2.10, S∗(1 + αz)− radii for some well-known Ma-Minda subclasses of S∗e , S∗s , S∗% , S∗℘, S∗ρ , S∗SG starlike functions, namely, and S∗Ne (see Table 1 in Appendix) are stated in Corollary 2.11. Moreover, sharpness of Corollary 2.11 is illustrated by Fig. 4.

Corollary 2.11. Let f ∈ A belong to FLP , then the following radii are sharp for the class FLP , (see Fig. √ 4) 2(λπ), (i) The S∗e−radius is r1 = tanh where λ = (1/2) (e− 1)/2e. √ 2(π/λ), (ii) The S∗s−radius is r2 = tanh where λ = 2 2 csc 1. 2(πλ/2), (iii) The S∗%−radius is r3 = tanh where λ = sin(1/2). √ 2(π/2 (iv) The S∗℘−radius is r4 = tanh 2e). √ √ 2(π (v) The S∗ρ−radius is r5 = tanh λ/2), where λ = (1/2) sinh−1 1. √ 2(λπ/2 (vi) The S∗SG−radius is r6 = tanh 2), where λ = (e− 1)/(e+ 1). √ 2(π/2 (vii) The S∗Ne−radius is r7 = tanh 3).