MRIDULA MUNDALIA AND S. SIVAPRASAD KUMAR

))2} Proof. Suppose z = reiα, where −π < α ≤ π, then for |z|= r < 1, √

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\operatorname{Re}(\mathcal{P}_{0}(z))=-\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left\{\operatorname{Re}\left(\log\left(\frac{1+\sqrt{z}}{1-\sqrt{z}}\right)\right)^{2}\right\}}\\ &{\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad=-\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\sqrt{\frac{\mu_{1}(r,c)}{\mu_{2}(r,c)}}\right)\right)^{2}+\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\tan^{-1}\left(\frac{2\sqrt{1-c^{2}}\sqrt{r}}{1-r}\right)\right)^{2}}\\ &{\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad\quad=:\mathcal{G}(r,c).}\end{array}
$$

where c := cos(α/2) and √

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\mu_{i}(r,c):=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{1+r+2c\sqrt{r},}&{i=1,}\\ {1+r-2c\sqrt{r},}&{i=2.}\end{array}\right.}\end{array}
$$

∈ Observe that c [−1, 1], infact it is easy to check that ∂G(r, c)/∂c = 0 if and only if c = 0, also ))2 ∂2G(r, 0)/∂c2 < 0, which leads to √

$$
\operatorname*{max}_{c\in[-1,1]}{\mathcal G}(r,c)=\mathcal G(r,0)=\mathcal P_{0}(-r)=1+\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\tan^{-1}\left(\frac{2\sqrt{r}}{1-r}\right)\right)^{2}.
$$

(2.1)

Moreover, for each R ≤ r < 1, equation (2.1) leads to G(r, 0) ≥ P0(r) = G(r, 1). Since G(r, 0) is an increasing function, whereas G(r, 1) is a decreasing function of r, this leads to the inequality G(r, 1) < G(r, 0), for each r < 1. Hence the required bound is achieved.

As a consequence of Lemma 2.1 and [15, Theorem 2.1 & Corollary 2.2], we obtain the Growth and Covering Theorems for the class FLP .

Theorem 2.2. Let f ∈ FLP , then the following holds

I. (Growth Theorem) For |z|= r < 1, let

$$
\operatorname*{max}_{|z|=r}\Re\mathcal{P}_{0}(z)=\mathcal{P}_{0}(-r)~and~\operatorname*{min}_{|z|=r}\Re\mathcal{P}_{0}(z)=\mathcal{P}_{0}(r),
$$

(∫ (∫ then for |z|= r < 1 the following sharp inequality holds

$$
r\exp\left(\int_{0}^{r}\frac{\mathcal{P}_{0}(t)}{t}dt\right)\leq|f(z)|\leq r\exp\left(\int_{0}^{r}\frac{\mathcal{P}_{0}(-t)}{t}dt\right).
$$

II. (Covering Theorem) Suppose min|z|=r ReP0(z) = P0(r) and f ∈ FLP . Let f0 be given by (1.2), then f(z) is a rotation of f0 or {w ∈ D : |w|≤ −f0(−1)} ⊂ f(D), where −f0(−1) = limr→1−f0(−1).

∣∣∣∣arg(zf )∣∣∣∣ Remark 2.3. (See Fig. 3) If f(z) is of the form f(z) = z + a2z + a3z + . . . , belongs to FLP , then

$$
\left|\arg\left({\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)}}-2\right)\right|>{\frac{3\pi}{4}},
$$

.

It can be verified that the equation of tangent corresponding to Γ : y2 = 1+2(1−x) is given by y = ±(x−2). Infact these tangents intersect the parabola Γ at the points (1,±1). Therefore it can be observed that the convex region ΩLP lies in the sector |arg(ω − 2)|> 3π/4. Hence this gives a sharp argument estimate for functions lying in the class FLP .

Remark 2.4. Due to Lemma 2.1, for |z|= r < 1, we have LP(r) max|z|=r|LP(z)|= |LP(r)|= |P0(r)|. ≤ ReLP(z) ≤ LP(−r) and infact

FLP . Based FLP 2.2. Radius Problems for the class on the definition of the class and pictorial LP(−1)

representation of LP(∂D) (see Fig. 2), we have max|z|≤1Re (LP(z)) = = 3/2. This means ′(z)/f(z) Re zf < 3/2, thus f ∈ FLP may or may not be a univalent function. Therefore it is an interesting problem to establish the largest radius r0 < 1 such that each f ∈ FLP is starlike in |z|≤ r0. In this section, we study some radius results for the class FLP along with the classes S∗(φ) and F(ψ) for some special choices of φ(z) and ψ(z), as mentioned in Table 1 (see Appendix) and equation (1.1), respectively. Here below we provide a lemma that yields a maximal disc that can be subscribed within the parabolic region ΩLP .