NON-UNIVALENT FUNCTIONS AND A PARABOLIC REGION

Figure 2. Image of open unit disk D under the mapping LP(z).

For brevity, let us assume P0(z) := P0,0(z) and LP(z) := 1+P0(z), then the horizontal parabolic region LP(z) (see Fig. 2), is given by

$$
\Omega_{\mathcal{LP}}:=\{\omega\in\mathbb{C}:(\operatorname{Im}\omega)^{2}<3-2\operatorname{Re}\omega\mathrm{~or~}|1-\omega|<2-\operatorname{Re}\omega\}.
$$

Since the major part of the above region lies in the left half plane, it is interesting to find the optimal radius of the domain disc for which it is fully mapped into the right half plane. Here below we define a class of analytic functions consisting of non-univalent functions.

Definition 1.1. Let the class FLP consist of functions f ∈ A satisfying the subordination ))2 √

$$
\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)}\prec\mathcal{LP}(z)=1-\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\frac{1+\sqrt{z}}{1-\sqrt{z}}\right)\right)^{2}.
$$

Note that if f0 ∈ FLP , then it can be expressed as ∫

$$
f_{0}(z)=z\left(\exp\int_{0}^{z}\frac{{\cal P}_{0}(t)}{t}dt\right),
$$

(1.2)

which acts as an extremal function for many radius results. Evidently, the subclasses of starlike functions ∗(α) S∗SG, S∗RL and SL (0 ≤ α < 1) (see Table 1) are contained in FLP , however FLP * S. In section 2, we examine some geometrical properties of the function LP(z).

2. Main Results

LP(z). In Lemma 2.1, we establish the maximum and 2.1. Geometric Properties of the function minimum bounds of real part of the function P0(z).

Lemma 2.1. Let z ∈ Dr = {z : |z|= r}, then for each 0 ≤ r < 1 and α ∈ (−π, π], we have

$$
{\mathcal{P}}_{0}(r)\leq\mathrm{Re}\,{\mathcal{P}}_{0}(re^{i\alpha})\leq{\mathcal{P}}_{0}(-r).
$$