MRIDULA MUNDALIA AND S. SIVAPRASAD KUMAR

 context of the above class F(ψ),

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\psi_{i}(z)=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{\gamma z(1+\eta z)^{-2}}&{,i=1}\\ {z(1-\alpha z^{2})^{-1}}&{,i=2}\\ {z(1-z)^{-1}(1+\beta z)^{-1}}&{,i=3}\\ {(A-B)^{-1}\log((1+Az)/(1+Bz))}&{,i=4,}\end{array}\right.}\end{array}
$$

(1.1)

∈ (0, π/2], and α, β, η ∈ (0, 1], γ where A = αeiτ , B = αe−iτ with τ > 0 (see [12, 15, 16, 19]). F(ψ1) and obtained the radius of Kumar and Gangania in [15], introduced the class Sγ(η) =

starlikeness. Cho et al. [2] dealt with certain sharp radius problems for the class BS(α) = F(ψ2). Infact Masih et al. [19] studied the class Scs(β) = F(ψ3), where 0 ≤ β < 1, discussed the growth theorem and established sharp estimates of logarithmic coefficients for 0 ≤ β ≤ 1/2. Further for 1/2 < β ≤ 1, the class Scs(β) contains non-univalent functions, infact for 0 ≤ β ≤ 1/2 the class Scs(β) ⊂ S∗. In 2022, Kumar et al. [16] introduced the class F(A,B) = F(ψ4) and established some radii results.

Figure 1. Graphs representing different parabolas with a common focus (1,0) (a) 1 + P0,π(∂D), (b) 1 + P0,0(∂D).

Motivated essentially by the above classes and observations, we now study a subclass of A con- taining non-univalent functions. For τ, θ ∈ (−π, π], the transformation √ √

$$
\omega=((2e^{i\theta/2}\sqrt{2}/\pi)(\tan^{-1}(e^{i(\tau-\pi/2)}\sqrt{z})))^{2}
$$

))2 maps the boundary of D onto a parabola (see Fig. 1), given by √

$$
\begin{array}{l}{{\displaystyle{\cal P}_{\tau,\theta}(z):=\frac{2e^{i(\theta+\pi)}}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\frac{1+e^{i\tau}\sqrt{z}}{1-e^{i\tau}\sqrt{z}}\right)\right)^{2}\qquad\qquad}}\\ {{\displaystyle{=\frac{8e^{i(\theta+\pi)}}{\pi^{2}}\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}\left(\frac{e^{2i\tau n}}{n}\sum_{k=0}^{n-1}\frac{1}{2k+1}\right)z^{n}},}}\end{array}
$$

√ √ where the branch of z is chosen so that Im z ≥ 0. Note that the function Pτ,θ(z) is univalent in D

and 1 + P0,π(z) (see Fig. 1(a)) is the parabolic function introduced independently by Ma-Minda [18] and Ronning [26], and used it extensively in context of parabolic starlike functions (see [10, 26]). Further, Kanas

[11] discussed some differential subordination techniques and later studied admissibility results [9] involving 1 + P0,π(z). Note that the boundary of the function P0,0(z) is a horizontal parabola with an opening in the left-half plane (see Fig. 1(b)). In the present study, we consider the function 1 + P0,0(z), in context of non-univalent functions, which is completely different from the way Ronning, Ma-Minda and Kanas (see

[9, 11, 18, 26]) handled parabolic regions. Obviously, the other choices of τ and θ leads to oblique parabolic regions, which is beyond the scope of our present study and therefore it is skipped here, as it needs to be handled differently.