NON-UNIVALENT FUNCTIONS AND A PARABOLIC REGION

11

Additionally, as a result of the Schwarzian inequality, we have

$$
|\psi^{\prime}(z)|\!\leq{\frac{1-|\psi(z)|^{2}}{1-|z|^{2}}},\quad(z\in\mathbb{D}).
$$

(2.10)

Moreover, from equations (2.8)-(2.10), we deduce

$$
\lvert f^{\prime}(z)\lvert\le\left(\lvert\psi(z)\lvert+\frac{r(1-\lvert\psi(z)\rvert^{2})}{(1-r^{2})(\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(r))}\right)\lvert g^{\prime}(z)\lvert.
$$

Substituting |ψ(z)|= σ (0 ≤ σ ≤ 1), results in

$$
|f^{\prime}(z)|\leq\Psi(r,\sigma)|g^{\prime}(z)|,
$$

where

$$
\Psi(r,\sigma)=\sigma+{\frac{r(1-\sigma^{2})}{(1-r^{2})({\cal L}{\cal P}(r))}}.
$$

We need to determine rm ≤ r∗ so that

$$
r_{m}=\operatorname*{max}\{r\in[0,r^{*}]:\Psi(r,\sigma)\leq1\;\forall\sigma\in[0,1]\}.
$$

Equivalently if Φ(r, σ) := (1− r2)(LP(r))− r(1 + σ) then we need to determine

$$
r_{m}=\operatorname*{max}\{r\in[0,r^{*}]:\Phi(r,\sigma)\geq0\;\forall\sigma\in[0,1]\}.
$$

Since ∂Φ/∂σ = −r < 0, then maxσ∈[0,1] Φ(r, σ) = Φ(r, 0) =: φ0(r). Further it is evident that, as φ0(0) = ∗) 1 > 0 and φ0(r = −r∗ < 0, then there exists rm ≤ r∗, a smallest positive root of the equation given in (2.7) such that φ0(r) ≥ 0 for each r ∈ [0, rm]. This completes the proof.

In 2017, Peng and Zhong [22], introduced the class Ω ⊂ A, defined as

$$
\Omega=\{f\in\mathcal{A}:|zf^{\prime}(z)-f(z)|<1/2\}\,.
$$

We conclude this section by determining sharp Ω−radius for the class FLP .

Theorem 2.21. Let f ∈ FLP , then f ∈ Ω in |z|< rL ≈ 0.522 . . . is the smallest positive root of √ √

$$
4f_{0}(r)(\log((1+\sqrt{r})/(1-\sqrt{r})))^{2}=\pi^{2}
$$

∫ and

$$
\begin{array}{l}{{\displaystyle g_{0}(z)=z\left(\exp\int_{0}^{z}\frac{{\cal P}_{0}(-t)}{t}dt\right)=z+\frac{8}{\pi^{2}}z^{2}-\frac{8}{3\pi^{4}}(\pi^{2}-12)z^{3}+\frac{8}{135\pi^{6}}(1440}}}\\ {{\displaystyle~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-\,360\pi^{2}+23\pi^{4})z^{4}-\cdots.}}\end{array}
$$

This is a sharp estimate.

(2.11)

∣∣∣∣ Proof. Since f ∈ FLP , then as a consequence of Remark 2.4 for |z|= r < 1, we have∣∣∣∣zf

$$
\left|\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)}-1\right|<|\mathcal{LP}(r)-1|=|\mathcal{P}_{0}(r)|.
$$

Due to the growth theorem as mentioned in [15, Theorem 1] and Theorem 2.2, we observe that |f(z)|≤ g0(r), ∣∣∣∣zf ∣∣∣∣ where g0(r) is given by (2.11). Further

$$
|zf^{\prime}(z)-f(z)|=|f(z)|\bigg|\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)}-1\bigg|\leq g_{0}(r)|\mathcal{P}_{0}(r)|.
$$

Thus g0(r)|P0(r)|≤ 1/2 provided |z|< rL ≈ 0.522864. Hence the result is established.