NON-UNIVALENT FUNCTIONS AND A PARABOLIC REGION

Lemma 2.5. Suppose a < 3/2 and assume that ζ(η) is defined as follows: √ √

$$
\zeta=\zeta(\eta)=\log\left(\frac{\sqrt{\eta}}{\sqrt{1-\eta}}\right)\ with\ \eta=\frac{e^{-\pi\sqrt{1-2a}}}{1+e^{-\pi\sqrt{1-2a}}},
$$

then LP(D) satisfies the following inclusion

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\mathcal{D}(a,r_{a}):=\{\omega\in\mathbb{C}:|\omega-a|<r_{a}\}\subset\Omega_{\mathcal{LP}},}\end{array}
$$

 √( )2 where

$$
\begin{array}{r}{r_{a}=\left\{\begin{array}{cl}{\sqrt{\left(a-\frac{3}{2}+\frac{2\zeta^{2}}{\pi^{2}}\right)^{2}+\frac{4\zeta^{2}}{\pi^{2}}},}&{a\leq\displaystyle\frac{1}{2}}\\ {\displaystyle\frac{3}{2}-a,}&{\displaystyle\frac{1}{2}<a<\frac{3}{2},}\end{array}\right.}\end{array}
$$

Proof. We obtain a maximal disc centered at (a, 0), where a < 3/2, that can be inscribed within ΩLP . The a+ 2 distance from center (a, 0) to the boundary f(∂(D)) is given by square root of ))2 ))2

$$
{\cal D}_{a}(X):=\left(a+\frac{2}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\frac{\sqrt{X^{2}}}{\sqrt{1-X^{2}}}\right)\right)^{2}-\frac{3}{2}\right)^{2}+\frac{4}{\pi^{2}}\left(\log\left(\frac{\sqrt{X^{2}}}{\sqrt{1-X^{2}}}\right)\right)^{2},
$$

 where X = cos t. Now the critical points of Da(X) are √ √ √ √ − 12π 1−2a 1−2a e e 2π ± ,± , if a < 1/2, √ √ 1−2a 1−2a 1 + eπ 1 + e−π ′ X √

$$
{\mathrm{if~}}1/2\leq a<3/2.
$$

±1/ ′, ′ It can be verified that D′′a(X) > 0 at X = X whenever a < 3/2. Therefore, X = X is the point of minima for Da(X), which leads us to the optimal disk centered at a with radius ra.

Theorem 2.6. Suppose 0 ≤ α < 1 and −1 < B < A ≤ 1, then for f ∈ A, the sharp FLP−radii for the ∗(α), S∗α,e and S∗(A,B) (see Table 1 in Appendix) are respectively given classes S∗p , S∗s , ∆∗, S∗% , S∗ρ , S∗℘, BS by 2(π/4).

(i) RFLP (S∗p ) = tanh (ii) RFLP (S∗s ) = π/6. (iii) RFLP (∆∗) = 5/12. −1(3/2))2. (iv) RFLP (S∗% ) = (cosh (v) RFLP (S∗ρ ) = sinh(1/2).

(vi) RFLP (S∗℘) ≈ 0.3517 . . . . ∗(α)) (vii) For 0 < α < 1, RFLP (BS = RBS , where

$$
R_{\mathrm{{\cal BS}}}=\left\{\begin{array}{cl}{{1/2,}}&{{\alpha=0}}\\ {{(\sqrt{1+\alpha}-1)/\alpha,}}&{{0<\alpha<1.}}\end{array}\right.
$$

(viii) RFLP (S∗α,e) = Rα,e, where

$$
\begin{array}{r}{R_{\alpha,e}=\left\{\begin{array}{cc}{\log(1-1/2(\alpha-1)),}&{0\leq\alpha<1-1/2(e-1)}\\ {1,}&{1-1/2(e-1)\leq\alpha<1.}\end{array}\right.}\end{array}
$$

In particular, RFLP (S∗e ) = log(3/2).  (ix) RFLP (S∗(A,B)) =: R̃, where

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\tilde{\eta}=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{1/(2A-3B),}&{when\((-1<B\leq(2A-1)/3)\land(-1<A<0))}\\ &{\quad\lor((-1<B<(2A-1)/3)\land(0\leq A\leq1)),}\\ {1,}&{when\ ((2A-1)/3<B<A\leq1)\land(-1<A<0))}\\ &{\quad\lor((-(2A-1)/3\leq B<A\leq1)\land(0\leq A\leq1)).}\end{array}\right.}\end{array}
$$

R̃ =