HAHT performs better in conducting MSC and generates more human-like, context-relevant, and history-aware responses than state-of-the-art mod- els.

7 Limitations

One limitation of this work is that HAHT has only been evaluated on one dataset. However, to the best of best of our knowledge, Facebook MSC is, by far, the only large-scale multi-session conversa- tion dataset available. Nevertheless, our proposed model consistently outperforms baseline models on conversations with different numbers of history sessions in Facebook MSC.

A potential solution to this limitation is to con- struct more MSC datasets in open-domain or in specific-domain that may benefit from the aware- ness of history conversations, e.g., conversational recommendation or automatic medical assistants.

8 Acknowledgments

This research is supported, in part, by Alibaba Group through the Alibaba Innovative Research (AIR) Program and the Alibaba-NTU Singapore Joint Research Institute (AN-GC-2021-04), by the National Research Foundation (NRF) Inves- tigatorship Programme (NRF-NRFI05-2019-0002), and by the NRF Fellowship (NRF-NRFF13-2021- 0006). Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not reflect the views of the funding agencies.

References

Daniel Adiwardana, Minh-Thang Luong, David R So, Jamie Hall, Noah Fiedel, Romal Thoppilan, Zi Yang, Apoorv Kulshreshtha, Gaurav Nemade, Yifeng Lu, and Quoc V. Le. 2020. Towards a human-like open- domain chatbot. arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.09977.

Leigh Clark, Nadia Pantidi, Orla Cooney, Philip Doyle, Diego Garaialde, Justin Edwards, Brendan Spillane, Emer Gilmartin, Christine Murad, Cosmin Munteanu, Vincent Wade, and Benjamin R. Cowan. 2019. What makes a good conversation? Challenges in designing truly conversational agents. In Proceed- ings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 1–12, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Emily Dinan, Stephen Roller, Kurt Shuster, Angela Fan, Michael Auli, and Jason Weston. 2019. Wizard of Wikipedia: Knowledge-powered conversational agents. In Proceedings of 7th International Confer- ence on Learning Representations.

Jiatao Gu, Zhengdong Lu, Hang Li, and Victor O.K. Li. 2016. Incorporating copying mechanism in sequence-to-sequence learning. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com- putational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1631–1640, Berlin, Germany. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Caglar Gulcehre, Sungjin Ahn, Ramesh Nallapati, Bowen Zhou, and Yoshua Bengio. 2016. Pointing the unknown words. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa- tional Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 140–149, Berlin, Germany. Association for Compu- tational Linguistics.

Ryuichiro Higashinaka, Kenji Imamura, Toyomi Me- guro, Chiaki Miyazaki, Nozomi Kobayashi, Hi- roaki Sugiyama, Toru Hirano, Toshiro Makino, and Yoshihiro Matsuo. 2014. Towards an open-domain conversational system fully based on natural lan- guage processing. In Proceedings of COLING 2014, the 25th International Conference on Compu- tational Linguistics: Technical Papers, pages 928– 939, Dublin, Ireland. Dublin City University and As- sociation for Computational Linguistics.

Minlie Huang, Xiaoyan Zhu, and Jianfeng Gao. 2020. Challenges in building intelligent open-domain dia- log systems. ACM Transactions on Information Sys- tems (TOIS), 38(3):1–32.

Gautier Izacard and Edouard Grave. 2021. Leveraging passage retrieval with generative models for open domain question answering. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the As- sociation for Computational Linguistics: Main Vol- ume, pages 874–880, Online. Association for Com- putational Linguistics.

Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980.

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein- rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock- täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge- intensive nlp tasks. In Advances in Neural Infor- mation Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 9459– 9474. Curran Associates, Inc.

Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. 2016. A diversity-promoting ob- jective function for neural conversation models. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computa- tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,

Joseph L. Fleiss and Jacob Cohen. 1973. The equiv- alence of weighted kappa and the intraclass corre- lation coefficient as measures of reliability. Educa- tional and Psychological Measurement, 33(3):613– 619. pages 110–119, San Diego, California. Association for Computational Linguistics.