Saizheng Zhang, Emily Dinan, Jack Urbanek, Arthur Szlam, Douwe Kiela, and Jason Weston. 2018. Per- sonalizing dialogue agents: I have a dog, do you have pets too? In Proceedings of the 56th An- nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2204– 2213, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Com- putational Linguistics.

Yizhe Zhang, Siqi Sun, Michel Galley, Yen-Chun Chen, Chris Brockett, Xiang Gao, Jianfeng Gao, Jingjing Liu, and Bill Dolan. 2020. DIALOGPT : Large- scale generative pre-training for conversational re- sponse generation. In Proceedings of the 58th An- nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations, pages 270– 278, Online. Association for Computational Linguis- tics.

1984 to the plan of hiking and picnic. When the user discusses preparing sandwiches and lemonade with the agent, "I can make sandwiches for us! I also have a very good recipe for homemade lemon- ade! Do you like lemonade?", HAHT can remem- ber information mentioned in the history conversa- tions, such as the user likes reading and outdoor ac- tivities and it has adopted a book-lover persona be- fore. HAHT can leverage these historical contexts and generate more human-like, context-relevant, and history-aware responses: “I love lemonade! I’m sure we can find a lot of good recipes for sand- wiches too. Sandwiches and lemonade are perfect for going outdoors and reading books.”.

Peixiang Zhong, Chen Zhang, Hao Wang, Yong Liu, and Chunyan Miao. 2020. Towards persona-based empathetic conversational models. In Proceed- ings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6556–6566, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Xiangyang Zhou, Daxiang Dong, Hua Wu, Shiqi Zhao, Dianhai Yu, Hao Tian, Xuan Liu, and Rui Yan. 2016. Multi-view response selection for human-computer conversation. In Proceedings of the 2016 Confer- ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 372–381, Austin, Texas. Associ- ation for Computational Linguistics.

Yutao Zhu, Jian-Yun Nie, Kun Zhou, Pan Du, and Zhicheng Dou. 2021. Content selection network for document-grounded retrieval-based chatbots. In Advances in Information Retrieval: 43rd European Conference on IR Research, ECIR, page 755–769, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer-Verlag.

A Appendix

A.1 Complete Case Study

Table 7 shows the complete content of the case study in section 5.5. The conversations were con- ducted by two crowd workers. For training pur- poses, the utterances from the first crowd worker are denoted as user utterances, whereas those from the second crowd worker are denoted as agent utter- ances. An MSC model aims to generate responses that are as close as possible to the second crowd worker’s utterances.

In history session 1, the user and the agent briefly talk about themselves, such as, their hobbies, and the job of their parents. In history session 2, they talk about the book that they are reading and some memories about reading books. In the current con- versation, their discussions vary from the book [Session 1] User: