Yanran Li, Hui Su, Xiaoyu Shen, Wenjie Li, Ziqiang Cao, and Shuzi Niu. 2017. DailyDialog: A manu- ally labelled multi-turn dialogue dataset. In Proceed- ings of the Eighth International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Pa- pers), pages 986–995, Taipei, Taiwan. Asian Federa- tion of Natural Language Processing.

Chin-Yew Lin and Franz Josef Och. 2004. Auto- matic evaluation of machine translation quality us- ing longest common subsequence and skip-bigram statistics. In Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Meet- ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL-04), pages 605–612, Barcelona, Spain.

Zhouhan Lin, Minwei Feng, Cicero Nogueira dos San- tos, Mo Yu, Bing Xiang, Bowen Zhou, and Yoshua Bengio. 2017. A structured self-attentive sentence embedding. In Proceedings of 5th International Conference on Learning Representations.

Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei- Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic eval- uation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com- putational Linguistics, pages 311–318, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Georgiy Platonov, Lenhart Schubert, Benjamin Kane, and Aaron Gindi. 2020. A spoken dialogue system for spatial question answering in a physical blocks world. In Proceedings of the 21th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dia- logue, pages 128–131, 1st virtual meeting. Associa- tion for Computational Linguistics.

Hongjin Qian, Zhicheng Dou, Yutao Zhu, Yueyuan Ma, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2021. Learning implicit user pro- file for personalized retrieval-based chatbot. In Pro- ceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, page 1467–1477, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Alan Ritter, Colin Cherry, and William B. Dolan. 2011. Data-driven response generation in social media. In Proceedings of the 2011 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 583–593, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Stephen Roller, Y-Lan Boureau, Jason Weston, An- toine Bordes, Emily Dinan, Angela Fan, David Gunning, Da Ju, Margaret Li, Spencer Poff, Pratik Ringshia, Kurt Shuster, Eric Michael Smith, Arthur Szlam, Jack Urbanek, and Mary Williamson. 2020. Open-domain conversational agents: Cur- rent progress, open problems, and future directions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.12442.

Stephen Roller, Emily Dinan, Naman Goyal, Da Ju, Mary Williamson, Yinhan Liu, Jing Xu, Myle Ott, Eric Michael Smith, Y-Lan Boureau, and Jason We- ston. 2021. Recipes for building an open-domain chatbot. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Compu- tational Linguistics: Main Volume, pages 300–325, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Iulian V. Serban, Alessandro Sordoni, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, and Joelle Pineau. 2016. Building end-to-end dialogue systems using generative hierar- chical neural network models. In Proceedings of the Thirtieth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, page 3776–3783. AAAI Press.

Iulian Vlad Serban, Alessandro Sordoni, Ryan Lowe, Laurent Charlin, Joelle Pineau, Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. 2017. A hierarchical latent variable encoder-decoder model for generating dialogues. In Proceedings of the Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 3295—-3301. AAAI Press.

Heung-Yeung Shum, Xiaodong He, and Di Li. 2018. From Eliza to XiaoIce: Challenges and oppor- tunities with social chatbots. arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.01957.

Kurt Shuster, Spencer Poff, Moya Chen, Douwe Kiela, and Jason Weston. 2021. Retrieval augmentation reduces hallucination in conversation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021, pages 3784–3803, Punta Cana, Do- minican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural Information Pro- cessing Systems, volume 30, pages 5998–6008. Cur- ran Associates, Inc.

Oriol Vinyals and Quoc Le. 2015. A neural conversa- tional model. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.05869.

Jing Xu, Arthur Szlam, and Jason Weston. 2022. Be- yond goldfish memory: Long-term open-domain conversation. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin- guistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 5180–5197, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational Lin- guistics.

Chunyuan Yuan, Wei Zhou, Mingming Li, Shangwen Lv, Fuqing Zhu, Jizhong Han, and Songlin Hu. 2019. Multi-hop selector network for multi-turn response selection in retrieval-based chatbots. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th Interna- tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro- cessing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 111–120, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Lin- guistics.