$$
A:=\sum_{j\geq0}{\binom{2n+1}{j}}\deg s_{j}(C_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X))
$$

(3)

and

$$
B:=\sum_{k\geq0}{\binom{3n+2}{k}}\deg s_{k}(C_{\Delta(X)}(X\times\sigma_{2}(X))).
$$

(4)

by substituting (1) into [7, Theorem 8.2.8]. The equation (3) is just a linear combi- nation of Segre classes of tangent bundle of X . Therefore, it is sufficient to calculate the term s(C∆(X)(X ×σ2(X))) in order to determine the degree of the 3-secant variety. However, the normal cone C∆(X)(X×σ2(X)) has singularities along the diagonal ∆(X), which must be expressed in simpler forms for the calculation to proceed.

3 The secant bundle

In this section, we start with introducing the concepts of higher very ampleness and secant bundles to relate information of double point formula with the information of higher secant varieties. It is often necessary to consider higher very ampleness of the projective embedding in order to ensure the desirable properties of the secant bundle and the inverse image of X under the birational morphism from the secant bundle to the secant variety. (cf. [13] and [15])

Definition 3. (cf. [1] and [4])

A line bundle L on a complete algebraic variety X over an algebraically closed field k is d-very ample if, for every zero-dimensional subscheme Z of X with length less than or equal to d+ 1, the restriction map

$$
r_{Z}:H^{0}(X,{\mathcal{L}})\to H^{0}(X,{\mathcal{L}}\otimes{\mathcal{O}}_{Z})
$$

is surjective.

Remark. Note that for two integers d1 ≥ d2, if a line bundle L is d1-very ample, L is also d2-very ample.

A line bundle L is 0-very ample if and only if it is spanned by global sections, and it is 1-very ample if and only if it is very ample. For instance, the d-uple Veronese embedding of Pn is embedded by the d-very ample line bundle O(d), as shown in [2, Cor 2.1 and Prop 2.2].

Since information about higher secant varieties is often very complicated and difficult to work with, we define and use the secant bundle as a nonsingular birational model for the secant variety. We compute the required algebraic cycles for the degree formula of the 3-secant variety.

In this chapter, we consider the problem of computing the degree of the 3-secant variety of a nonsingular projective variety X that is embedded by a 5-very ample line bundle L. The information about higher secant varieties can be difficult to work with, so we define and use the secant bundle as a nonsingular birational model for the secant variety. We compute the required algebraic cycles for the degree formula of the 3-secant

[2] variety. We let X be the Hilbert scheme of 2 points of X and PN be the projective

[2] space PH0(X,L). It is known that X is smooth for any dimension of X(cf. [6]). We

[2]

[2] [2], consider the projections π1 : X×X → X and π2 : X×X → X and the universal [2].

[2] family Z2 ⊂ X ×X We let IZ2 be the ideal sheaf of Z2 on X ×X and OZ2 be the structure sheaf of Z2.