′ → Y be a morphism of pure-dimensional Proposition [8, Proposition 4.2 (a)] Let f : Y ′ ′ → schemes, X ⊂ Y a closed subscheme, X = f−1(X) the inverse image scheme, g : X

X the induced morphism ′

(a) If f is proper, Y irreducible, and f maps each irreducible component of Y onto Y , then

$$
deg(Y^{\prime}/Y)s(X,Y).
$$

Equation (6) can be used to calculate (4). Consider the following closed immersions:

$$
\Gamma_{q}\subset X\times Z_{2}\subset X\times\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})
$$

Since each term is nonsingular, each of these closed immersions is a regular immersion. Therefore, we have the following exact sequence of normal bundles:

$$
0\to N_{\Gamma_{q}}(X\times Z_{2})\to N_{\Gamma_{q}}(X\times\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))\to N_{X\times Z_{2}}(X\times\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))|_{\Gamma_{q}}\to0
$$

After simplification, we obtain the following:

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{~~~~~~~s(N_{\Gamma_{q}}(X\times Z_{2}))=(\Gamma_{q}\to X)^{*}s(T_{X})=(\mathrm{id}\times r)^{*}s(T_{\Delta(X)})}\\ &{s(N_{X\times Z_{2}}(X\times\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))|_{\Gamma_{q}})=(\Gamma_{q}\to Z_{2})^{*}s(N_{Z_{2}}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))}\end{array}
$$

(7)

Using (7), we get:

$$
s(N_{\Gamma_{q}}(X\times\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})))=(\mathrm{id}\times r)^{*}s(T_{\Delta(X)})\cdot(\Gamma_{q}\to Z_{2})^{*}s(N_{Z_{2}}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})).
$$

(8)

∗ Note that (id × r|Γq)∗ ◦ (Γq → Z2) is (∆(X) → X)∗ ◦ r∗ on Chow rings. From (6) and (8), we get the following :

$$
s(\Delta(X),X\times\sigma_{2}(X))=(\Delta(X)\to X)^{*}(s(T_{X})\cdot r_{*}s(N_{Z_{2}}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))\cap[X]
$$

(9)

−1(X) So, it remains to compute the total Segre class s(NZ2P(EL)). Since r can be regarded as an effective divisor of P(EL), we can compute s(Z2,P(EL)) by [8, Cor 4.2.2] as follow:

$$
s(Z_{2},\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))=\frac{[Z_{2}]}{1+[Z_{2}]}.
$$

(10)

In order to proceed, it is necessary to express the term [Z2] in terms of the tautological

[2] ∗β, line bundle ζ of P(EL) and π where β is a divisor on X (cf. Fulton 2013, Chapter 3.3). This is achieved by calculating the first Chern class of EL in proposition 3.1.

Let h be the divisor corresponding to a line bundle L on X . We denote the pullback ∗h1 of h under the i-th projection as hi. The morphism ρ is an involution map, so ρ∗η ∗h2.

∗h1 ∗h2 ρ∗η We define H = ρ∗η = ρ∗η and δ = ρ∗E. The following proposition may be known to experts but I could not find appropriate references, so I will provide a proof.

Proposition 3.1. c1(EL) = H − δ

[2] be the projection map of a projective bundle. Consider Proof. Let π : P(EL) → X

[2]

the normal sheaf N := NZ2/X×X[2] and the closed immersion j : Z2 → X×X with the

[2] composition q : Z2 → X of η and the first projection. The morphism π1|Z2 : Z2 → X ∗ [2], is a finite flat morphism, and π2 ⊗ OZ2) is a locally free sheaf on X so by ∗(π 1L ∗ Grauert’s theorem, all higher direct images Riπ2 vanish for i ≥ 1. Let TX ∗(π 1L⊗OZ2) be the tangent sheaf of X .