The dimension i part of the Segre class s(C) is denoted si(C), and if C is equi- dimC−i(C). dimensional, then si(C) = s

The dimension i part of the Segre class of the normal cone of a closed immersion X → Y is denoted si(CXY ) or s(X, Y )i.

For the better understanding of the generalized version of double point formula, we give a definition of two kind of join varieties.

Definition 2. (cf. [7, Chapter 1.3])

Let X and Y be subvarieties of PN . The embedded join of X and Y is the closure of the union of all lines connecting a point in X to a point in Y , denoted XY . The abstract or ruled join J(X, Y ) is the projective spectrum of the tensor product of the homogeneous coordinate rings of X and Y , denoted J(X, Y ).

For example, the ruled join of Pn and Pm is Pn+m+1. The affine cone of a subvariety X is defined as the spectrum of the homogeneous coordinate ring of X . The ruled join J(X, Y ) consists of the closed points [x : y] where x and y are points of affine cones of X and Y , respectively.

Let X and Y be two projective subvarieties of the projective space and let PN , x and y be closed points in X and Y , respectively, with coordinate representations [x0 : · · · : xN ] and [y0 : · · · : yN ]. We define a rational map J(X, Y ) 99K XY by

$$
[x_{0}:\cdots:x_{N}:y_{0}:\cdots:y_{N}]\mapsto[x_{0}-y_{0}:\cdots:x_{N}-y_{N}].
$$

The indeterminate locus of this map is defined by the equations x0 − y0 = · · · = xN − yN = 0. We denote the degree of this rational map J(X, Y ) 99K XY by deg(J/XY ).

The intersection X ∩ Y is embedded into the product variety X × Y along its diag- onal embedding. Let CX∩Y (X × Y ) denote the normal cone of X ∩ Y to X × Y . The following theorem decomposes the information of the embedded join into simpler pieces:

Theorem [7, Theorem 8.2.8] For subvarieties X, Y of PN of degree dX , resp. dY and dimension n, resp. m we have

$$
\deg XY\deg(J/XY)=d_{X}d_{Y}\ -\sum_{k\geq0}{\binom{n+m+1}{k}}\ \deg s_{k}(C_{X\cap Y}(X\times Y)).
$$

This formula is derived from the refined Bezout’s theorem, which is based on Vogel’s v and β cycle construction. For further explanations, see [7, Chapter 2] and [7, Chapter 8].

If we set Y = σ2(X), then the embedded join XY is the 3-secant variety σ3(X). Thus, in order to compute deg σ3(X), we need the degree of the 2-secant variety dY = deg σ2(X) as well as the degrees of the Segre classes sk(C∆(X)(X × σ2(X))). Assume that OX(1) is a 3-very ample line bundle. The degree of the 2-secant variety dY can be obtained by applying [7, Theorem 8.2.8] again:

$$
2\deg\sigma_{2}(X)=d_{X}^{2}-\sum_{k\geq0}{\binom{2n+1}{k}}\ \deg s_{k}(C_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X)).
$$

(1)

If L is 5-very ample, the degree of the rational map J(X, Y ) XY is 3. (cf. 99K

Lemma 4.1) Therefore, by the above theorem, the degree of the 3-secant variety of X can be computed as follows: where

$$
\frac{1}{3}\left(\frac{d_{X}(d_{X}^{2}-A)}{2}-B\right)
$$

(2)