In equation (10), it is deduced that

$$
s(Z_{2},{\mathbb P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))=\sum_{i\geq0}(-1)^{i}[Z_{2}]^{i+1}.
$$

The Chow ring of the projective bundle, A∗P(EL), is well-known, but it is simpler to compute the restriction on Z2 rather than on the projective bundle. Therefore, the power of [Z2] is computed as follows:

$$
[Z_{2}]^{i+1}=([Z_{2}]|_{Z_{2}})^{i}
$$

for i ≥ 0. Additionally, it is straightforward to apply the push-forward r∗ on the cycles on Z2, as the image r(Z2) is X . Therefore, the equation (10) can be rewritten as:

$$
s(Z_{2},{\mathbb P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))=\sum_{i\geq0}(-1)^{i}([Z_{2}]|_{Z_{2}})^{i}.
$$

(11)

To continue, we require an expression of [Z2|Z2] as a linear combination of generators of the Chow ring A∗Z2.

∗(h1 − h2) in A1Z2 where [Z2] is a cycle associated Proposition 3.2. [Z2]|Z2 = 2E + η to scheme Z2.

[2]

Proof. We denote the canonical divisors of X and Z2 as KX[2] and KZ2 , respectively. The ramification divisor of ρ is E, so we have

$$
\rho^{*}K_{X^{[2]}}=K_{Z_{2}}-E.
$$

(12)

Equation (12) can be found in some literature, or it can be deduced directly from the following exact sequence of sheaves:

$$
0\rightarrow\rho^{*}T_{X^{[2]}}^{*}\rightarrow T_{Z_{2}}^{*}\rightarrow{\cal O}_{E}(-E)\rightarrow0.
$$

Let ζ be the first Chern class of the tautological line bundle of P(EL). The normal bundle NZ2P(EL) is represented by OZ2([Z2]),

$$
c_{1}(\mathcal{O}_{Z_{2}}([Z_{2}]))=K_{Z_{2}}-K_{\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})}|_{Z_{2}}.
$$

In addition, we have the following adjunction formula for the projective bundle:

$$
K_{\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})}=-2\zeta+\pi^{*}c_{1}(E_{\mathcal{L}})+\pi^{*}K_{X^{[2]}}.
$$

∗KX[2] ∗δ. Note that (π∗KX[2])|Z2 = ρ = KZ2 −E = KZ2 − ρ Then

$$
c_{1}(\mathcal{O}_{Z_{2}}([Z_{2}]))=2\zeta|_{Z_{2}}-\rho^{*}(H-\delta)+\rho^{*}\delta
$$

by proposition 3.1. Recall that c1(OZ2(Z2) = [Z2]Z2 and hence we get

$$
[Z_{2}]|_{Z_{2}}=2\zeta|_{Z_{2}}-\rho^{*}(H-2\delta).
$$

(13)

[2] We need information about ζ |Z2. We know that Z2 is a closed subvariety ofX×X ⊂ [2]. Therefore, we can choose a suitable section of ζ |Z2 whose zero locus PH0(X,L)×X

[2]) is (h×X ∩ Z2. ∼= Recall that we have an isomorphism Z2 Bl∆(X)(X ×X), which allows us to view

[2]

Z2 ⊂ X×X → X as equivalent to Bl∆(X)(X×X)→ X×X → X , where the second ∗h1|Z2 morphism is pr1. Thus, we obtain ζ |Z2 = η

Substituting this result into (13), we find that

$$
[Z_{2}]|_{Z_{2}}=2E+\eta^{*}(h_{1}-h_{2}).
$$