[n] Let X be the Hilbert scheme of n points of X . For each zero-dimensional subscheme

[n] ξ ∈ X if the map

$$
H^{0}({\mathbb{P}}^{3n-2},{\mathcal{O}}_{\mathbb{P}}(1))\to H^{0}(\xi,{\mathcal{O}}_{\xi}(1))
$$

fails to be surjective, then ξ does not impose independent conditions on the linear system |H|. The authors computation on top Segre classes and Nn would give formuli for the degree of all higher secant varieties of a surface under sufficient higher very ample embedding conditions.

As a generalization of above results on the degree of the 3-secant variety σ3(X) for arbitrary dimension of X , the main theorem is presented as follows :

Theorem 1.1 (Main theorem). Let X be a nonsingular projective variety embedded by a 5-very ample line bundle. Let n and d be the dimension and the degree of X. Then the degree of the 3-secant variety σ3(X) is given by the following formula :

$$
\frac{1}{3!}\{d^{3}-\sum_{k=0}^{n}d\;_{a_{n,k}}\;\deg s_{k}(I_{X})+\sum_{k=0}^{n}\sum_{a=0}^{k}2^{k-a+n+1}{\binom{3n+2}{n-k}}\;\deg(s_{a}(I_{X})\cdot s_{k-\rho}(I_{X}))\}.
$$

2n+1 ∑n 3n+2 i−k+n i−k where an,k = i=k(−1) n−k n−i

When attempting to compute the degree of the 3-secant variety for arbitrary di- mension of X , it is not possible to imitate the approach in [10] by Lehn. It is be- [3] cause the universal family Z3 ⊂ X × X may be singular(cf. [6] ). Additionally the refined Bezout’s theorem cannot be applied directly. One possible approach is to set V as the triple join J(X,X,X) of X and σ as the addition map defined by [x0, · · ·xN , y0, · · · , yN , z0, · · · zN ] 7→ [x0+ y0+ z0, · · · , xN + yN + zN ]. The image σ(V ) is the 3-secant variety σ3(X). However the indeterminacy locus of σ can be non-reduced, making computation of vi(σ, V ) much more difficult. Therefore it is not advisable to imitate the approach in [7].

To circumvent these issues, we propose to use the secant bundle, which was intro- duced by R.L.E. Schwarzenberger in [11] for the purpose of giving fiber bundle structure of secant lines. While the original construction was based on symmetric product of a given variety, rather than the Hilbert scheme of points, in this paper we adopt the convention presented in [3] and [15] where the secant bundle is a projective bundle over a Hilbert scheme of points. This approach has been used in previous works such as [3], [13], [14] and [15], where the secant bundles was used as a tool for describing the singularity and the normality of the 2-secant variety. In this paper, we utilize the biraional morphism from the secant bundle to the 2-secant variety as a resolution of singularities.

In Section 2, we define the total Segre class of a cone and introduce a generalized version of double point formula. This formula allows us to compute the total Segre class s(X, σ2(X)) in order to determine the degree of the 3-secant variety. However, the singularity of the 2-secant variety may impede this computation. To overcome this issue, we introduce the notion of higher very ampleness of a line bundle L and the secant bundle in Section 3. We take the secant bundle as a nonsingular birational model for the 2-secant variety when the line bundle L satisfies the higher very ampleness condition. As shown in [13], the inverse image of X under this birational morphism is isomorphic

[2] to the universal family Z2 ⊂ X×X when L is 3-very ample. This allows us to regard