The remaining calculation simply involves taking the first projections, which yields:

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{(\mathrm{pr}_{1})_{*}(h_{1}-h_{2})^{l}=\displaystyle{\sum_{a=0}^{l}(-1)^{l-a}\binom{l}{a}h^{a}\cdot(\mathrm{pr}_{1})_{*}\mathrm{pr}_{2}^{*}\,h^{l-a}}}\\ &{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=(-1)^{n}\binom{l}{l-n}h^{l-n}\cdot d[X].\qquad(l\geq n)}\end{array}
$$

By substituting (15) into (14) we have :

$$
\begin{array}{lcl}{\displaystyle{s(X,\sigma_{2}(X))=\sum_{l=n}^{2n}(-1)^{n+l}{\binom{l}{n}}\cdot d\;h^{l-n}-\sum_{l=n}^{2n}2^{l}s_{l-n}(T_{X})\cap[X]}}\\ {\displaystyle{=\sum_{i=0}^{n}(-1)^{i}{\binom{i+n}{n}}\cdot d\;h^{i}-\sum_{i=0}^{n}2^{i+n}s_{i}(T_{X})\cap[X]}.}\end{array}
$$

From equation (9), we obtain:

$$
s^{\langle}\Delta(X),X\times\sigma_{2}\langle X\rangle\rangle=s(T_{X})\cap s(X,\sigma_{2}(X))
$$

by omitting the pull back (∆(X)→ X)∗. Therefore, we obtain the main formula from equation (2), which completes the proof.

n.

Corollary. The multiplicity of σ2(X) along X is d− 2

Proof. The multiplicity of σ2(X) alongX is the coefficient of [X ] in the class s(X, σ2(X)). (cf. [8, Chapter 4.3])

5 Examples 5.1 In the case of curves

Consider the case where C is a smooth projective curve. Let g be the genus of a curve C. The degree of each term of Segre class TC is given by deg s0(TC) = d and deg s1(TC) = 2g − 2. By substituting those terms in the main formula we get :

$$
\deg\sigma_{3}(C)=\frac{1}{3!}(d^{3}-9d^{2}+26d+24-6dg-24g)
$$

which can be found in [12, Proposition 1].

5.2 In the case of surfaces

Consider the case where S is a smooth projective surface. Let K be the canonical divisor of S, let d = h2, let π = h · K, let κ = K2, and let e = c2 be the topological Euler characteristic. The total Segre class of the tangent sheaf TS of S has degree 0, 1, and 2 terms, which are given by:

$$
s_{0}(T_{S})=[S],\;s_{1}(T_{S})=K,\;s_{2}(T_{S})=\kappa-e.
$$

By substituting those terms in the main formula we get : which can be found in [10, Section 4].

$$
\deg\sigma_{3}(S)=\frac{1}{3!}(d^{3}-30d^{2}+224d-3d(5\pi+\kappa-e)+192\pi+56\kappa-40e)
$$