We construct the following exact sequence of sheaves:

$$
0\rightarrow\pi_{1}^{*}{\cal L}\otimes I_{Z_{2}}\rightarrow\pi_{1}^{*}{\cal L}\rightarrow\pi_{1}^{*}{\cal L}\otimes{\cal O}_{Z_{2}}\rightarrow0.
$$

[2] Since the restriction of π2 to Z2, π2|Z2 : Z2 → X is flat of degree 2, the sheaf ∗ π2 ⊗ OZ2) is locally free of rank 2. Denote the tautological bundle associated ∗(π 1L ∗ with L by EL = π2 ⊗ OZ2). The fiber of the vector bundle EL at a point ∗(π 1L

[2] Z ∈ X is given by H0(X,L ⊗ OZ). Since L is 1-very ample, the restriction map H0(X,L)→ H0(X,L⊗OZ) is surjective. This implies that the morphism π2∗π∗1L → EL is also surjective. As a result, we have a composition of morphisms

$$
\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})\rightarrow\mathbb{P}H^{0}(X,\mathcal{L})\times X^{[2]}\rightarrow\mathbb{P}H^{0}(X,\mathcal{L})=\mathbb{P}^{N},
$$

which is a closed immersion of projective varieties. In [15], it is shown that if L is a 1-very ample line bundle, the image of this map is the 2-secant variety σ2(X). We denote this map as r : P(EL) → σ2(X). The projective bundle P(EL) is known as the secant bundle of lines, and it is birational to the 2-secant variety σ2(X) (as shown in [3] and [15]).

It is a well-known fact that the universal family Z2 is isomorphic to the blow-up of X × X along its diagonal ∆(X) (see [9, Remark 2.5.4]). We denote the blow-up morphism by

$$
\eta:Bl_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X)\to X\times X
$$

and the involution map by

$$
\rho : Bl_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X)\cong Z_{2}\to X^{[2]}.
$$

The exceptional divisor of η on Bl∆(X)(X × X) is denoted by E. The projections X ×X → X are denoted by pri. The following diagram commutes:

$$
\begin{array}{r}{Bl_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X)\cong Z_{2}\longmapsto X\times X}\\ {\Big\downarrow^{\rho}\qquad\qquad\Big\downarrow}\\ {X^{[2]}\xrightarrow{\epsilon}X^{(2)}}\end{array}
$$

[2] where X(2) is the quotient (X × X)/S2 and ǫ : X → X(2) is the Hilbert-Chow morphism.

In [13, Lemma 1.2], it is shown that the scheme-theoretic inverse image r−1(X) under the map r : P(EL) → σ2(X) is isomorphic to Z2 when L is 3-very ample. Note that

[2]

[2] X × X is a closed subvariety of PN × X and hence we can regard Z2 is a closed subvariety of the secant bundle P(EL) in a natural way. By adjusting the isomorphism, [2] we can ensure that the composition of the maps Z2 → X × X → X corresponds to −1(X) the composition of the maps q := pr1 ◦ η. From this point on, we will identify r with Z2.

Denote by Γq the graph of q : Z2 → X . The product morphism idX×r : X×P(EL)→ X × σ2(X) has inverse image of the diagonal ∆(X) of X × σ2(X) given by the graph locus Γq.

According to [8, Proposition 4.2 (a)], we have that

$$
r_{*}s(Z_{2},\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))=s(X,\sigma_{2}(X)),
$$

(5)

and

$$
(\mathrm{id}_{X}\times r)_{*}s(\Gamma_{q},X\times\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))=s(\Delta(X),X\times\sigma_{2}(X)).
$$

(6)