4 Main theorem

In order to derived the degree formula for the 3-secant variety, it is necessary to utilize each term of [7, Theorem 8.2.8]. To accomplish this, we present the following lemma.

Lemma 4.1. Let X be a nonsingular projective variety that is embedded by a 5-very ample line bundle. Let Y be the 2-secant variety σ2(X). Let J be the ruled join J(X, Y ). Then deg(J/XY ) is 3.

Proof. Let w be a general point of σ3(X) \ σ2(X). If there are two secant planes that contain w, 6 points of X do not satisfy the independent condition of 5-very ample- ness.(cf. [5, Remark 1.7]) So, there exists a unique plane spanned by three points of X that contains w. Let x, y, and z be three distinct points of X such that their linear span contains w. Let a, b, and c be the points of intersection of xw with yz, yw with zx, and zw with xy, respectively. Then, the three points of the ruled join J(X, Y ) corresponding to the ratios between (x, w), (w, a), (y, w), (w, b), and (z, w), (w, c) are exactly the inverse image of the rational map J(X, Y ) 99K XY .

Prior to starting a proof of the main theorem, we denote the tangent sheaf of X by TX . It follows from the definition of Segre class that sk(C∆(X)(X ×X)) = sn−k(TX) as a Segre class of a locally free sheaf. With this notation established, we now proceed to the proof of the main theorem:

Proof of main theorem. Recall that X is a smooth projective variety of dimension n and E ⊂ Z2 can be regarded as a projective bundle associated with the tangent bundle on X . Using equations (5), (11), and proposition 3.2, we obtain:

$$
s(X,\sigma_{2}(X))=q_{*}\left(\sum_{i\geq0}(-1)^{i}(2E+\eta^{*}(h_{1}-h_{2}))^{i}\right).
$$

(14)

Let P (C∆(X)(X × X)) be the projective tangent cone to X and O(1) be the tau- tological line bundle. Let g : P (C∆(X)(X × X)) → X be the projection map. Note that P (C∆(X)(X ×X)) is isomorphic to the projective bundle P(Ω where Ω is the

X)

sheaf of Kähler differentials. The total Segre classes s(C∆(X)(X × X)) and s(TX) are equal but they have different conventions for indexes: sk(TX) = sn−k(C∆(X)(X×X)) for 0 ≤ k ≤ n. As schemes, E and P (C∆(X)(X×X)) are the same and hence E|E = O(−1) holds.

Remark. Recall that we use the convention for projective bundles and tautological line bundles as in [8, Appendix B.5.5].

Therefore we have

$$
\eta_{*}E^{i}=\eta_{*}(E|_{E})^{i-1}=(-1)^{i-1}\;g_{*}(c_{1}(\mathcal{O}(1))^{i-1}\cap[P(C_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X))])
$$

for i ≥ 1 and hence η∗Ei = (−1)i−1si−n(T∆(X)) for i ≥ n. Since η∗(h1 − h2) · E is zero, we obtain that

$$
\eta_{*}\sum_{l=n}^{2n}(-1)^{l}(2E+\eta^{*}(h_{1}-h_{2}))^{l}=\sum_{l=n}^{2n}(-1)^{l}(h_{1}-h_{2})^{l}-\sum_{l=n}^{2n}2^{i}s_{l-n}(T_{X})\cap[X].
$$

2lsl−n(TX) ∩ [X ]. (15)