6 Gao et al.

Figure 4.Upper: The unfolded energy spectra corresponding to the peak phase (in red) and the trough phase (in blue) and the corresponding spectral components of the best-fitting models. The solid line shows the total spectrum. The disk component is not shown as it is very weak and negligible. The Compton and reflection components are represented by a dotted line and a dashed line, respectively. Middle: The contributions to the chi-square for the peak and trough spectra. Lower: The ratio between the flux changes between the peak phase and the trough phase in the Compton component and the reflection component (shown as the dashed line), and the QPO fractional RMS vs. energy up to 200 keV (marked in solid square at the lower panel). Here 𝑅P-𝑅T is the photon flux change of reflection component, and 𝐶P-𝐶T is the photon flux change of Compton component.

Hot accretion flow model has been the popular model to account

for the Compton emission in the hard state of BHXRB (Done et al. 2007). In this model, the accretion geometry is composed of a hot accretion flow inside a truncated disk (Esin et al. 1997). The preces- sion of the hot accretion flow can modulate the Compton emission through self-occultation, projected area and relativistic effects, which

MNRAS 000, 1–8 (2022) produce the observed LFQPO (Ingram et al. 2009). Because there is a misalignment between the hot accretion flow and the accretion disk, the reflection fraction changes with the hot accretion flow precession. The variation of the reflection fraction with LFQPO phases strongly depends on the inclination angle and the truncated disk radius (You et al. 2020).

R M S ( % )