LIANG-CHUNG HSIA, HUA-CHIEH LI, ANDWEI-LIANG SUN

With this lower bound, one can easily verify the truth of Conjecture C (and Conjec- ture B) for small values of ℓ. The following results are direct consequences of Theorem 1. For the reader’s convenience, we give a proof.

Corollary 2.3. For 1 ≤ ℓ ≤ 4, we have Ng > 0 for every generator g of F×q . Moreover, there exists a point (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) such that xy 6= 0 and hence Conjecture C holds for the case where ℓ0 = [F×p : H]≤ 4.

Proof. As it’s easy to deduce the conclusion if ℓ= 1, we leave the verification of this case to the reader. Let’s first consider the case where ℓ= 2. Notice that in this case p> 2 and

gℓ = 0. Therefore, Ñg = q+1 by Theorem 1. It’s not hard to verify that 

$$
N_{g}=\left\{\!\!\!\begin{array}{ll}{\widetilde{N_{g}}}&{\textrm{if}\,q\equiv1\quad\textrm{(mod~4)}}\\ {\widetilde{N_{g}}-2}&{\textrm{if}\,q\equiv3\quad\textrm{(mod~4)}\,.}\end{array}\right.
$$

Therefore, Ng = q+1 if q≡ 1 (mod 4) and Ng = q−1 if q≡ 3 (mod 4). In either case, we clearly have Ng > 0. It remains to show that there exists a point (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) such that xy 6= 0.Observe that there are at most four points in Cg(Fq)with either x= 0 or y= 0. In the case where q≡ 1 (mod 4) we have Ng = q+1≥ 6. It remains to look at the case where q≡ 3 (mod 4). Since ℓ= 2 is a proper divisor of q−1 by assumption, we see that q≥ 7 and we also have Ng = q−1≥ 6. Now, it’s clear that there’s a point (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) such that xy 6= 0 since Ng > 4 in both cases.

Next, we consider the cases where ℓ = 3 and 4. Since ℓ > 2, we have that Ng = Ñg by Lemma 2.1. Suppose that ℓ = 3. In this case C̃g is of genus one. Then the Hasse-Weil bound gives that √ √

$$
N_{g}\ge(q+1)-2\sqrt{q}=(\sqrt{q}-1)^{2}>0.
$$

× Therefore, Ng > 0 for any generator g of F in this case. Suppose that there exists a

solution (x,y) to Equation (3) such that either x = 0 or y= 0 for ℓ = 3. Then we get that × /L divides either g or g2 is a cube in F×q . This implies that the order of gL in the group F

2 which is absurd since |F×q /L|= 3. Therefore, any (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) must satisfy xy 6= 0 as desired.

Assume that ℓ = 4. A direct computation shows that for q> 49, we have that Ng > 8. Since there are at most eight solutions to Equation (3) such that either x = 0 or y = 0 for ℓ = 4, we see that for q > 49 there exists (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) such that xy 6= 0 as asserted. It remains to check prime power numbers q satisfying q ≤ 49 such that 4 is a proper divisor of q−1. Hence, we are left with eight cases where q= 9,13,17,25,29,37,41,49 to verify. Note that if (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) with xy 6= 0 then (x−1,x−1y) ∈ Cg−1(Fq). It follows

that Cg(Fq) contains a point whose coordinates are nonzero if and only if Cg−1(Fq) has ′L ∈ {gL,g−1L} in the this property as well. Also, for any generator g′ of F×q we have g

case where |F×q /L| = 4. It follows that Cg(Fq) contains a point whose coordinates are nonzero if and only if Cg′(Fq) has this property as well. Hence, it suffices to show that Cg(Fq) containing a point with nonzero coordinates for just one generator g of F×q . We give the following table for each case.