LIANG-CHUNG HSIA, HUA-CHIEH LI, ANDWEI-LIANG SUN

over Fq. Let Cg be the affine plane curve defined by this equation. Note that Cg is non- singular and irreducible over Fq, an algebraic closure of Fq. Denote the set of Fq-rational points of Cg by

$$
\mathscr{C}_{g}(\mathbb{F}_{q})=\left\{(x,y)\in\mathbb{F}_{q}^{2}\mid g^{2}\lambda^{\ell}+g\lambda^{\ell}+1=0\right\}
$$

and let Ng = |Cg(Fq)| be its cardinality. Furthermore, let C̃g be the (Zariski) closure of Cg in the projective plane defined by the homogeneous equation

$$
g^{2}X^{\ell}+gY^{\ell}+Z^{\ell}=\bf{0}.
$$

(4)

Note that C̃g is also non-singular. We let Ñg denote the cardinality of C̃g(Fq). Having Conjecture B and Conjecture C in mind, we are especially concerned with whether or not a point (x,y) ∈ Cg(Fq) satisfying xy 6= 0. The following lemma shows that this is always true except for very limited special cases.

Lemma 2.1. Equation (4) has a nontrivial solution (x,y,z) with xyz= 0 if and only if one of the following situations holds: (i) ℓ= 1 or 2; (ii) ℓ= 4 and −1 6∈ L.

Moreover, if ℓ > 2, then xz 6= 0.

Proof. Suppose that (x,y,z) is a nontrivial solution to Equation (4) with xyz = 0. Then only one of x,y,z is zero. Observe that if x = 0 or z = 0, then −g ∈ L and gL is either of order 1 or 2 in F×q /L; if y = 0, then −g2 ∈ L and gL is of order 4 in F×q /L. In particular, we have xz 6= 0 provided that ℓ 6= 2. In the case where ℓ = 4, we see that −L = g2L 6= L. It follows that −1 6∈ L.

Conversely, if ℓ = 1 then it’s clear that Equation (4) has a nontrivial solution (x,y,z) with xyz= 0. Suppose that ℓ= 2, then F×q /L= {L,gL}. If −1 6∈ L, then −L= gL. In this case, g=−a2 ∈ L for some a∈F×q . Then, we clearly have solutions (x,y,z)= (1,a,0) and (0,1,a). Suppose −1 ∈ L, then −g2 = b2 ∈ L for some b ∈ F×q and we have the solution (x,y,z) = (1,0,b) in this case.

Finally, suppose that ℓ = 4 and −1 6∈ L. Then both g2L and −L are of order 2 in the

cyclic group F×q /L. Thus, −L = g2L and this gives a solution (x,y,z) = (1,0,b) where −g2 = b4 ∈ L.

Following [Wei48], the number Ng of solutions to Equation (3) can be expressed as

a character sum which we now recall. As usual, by a multiplicative character of Fq we × ×. mean a character of the group F×q , i.e. a group homomorphism from F to C As we only deal with multiplicative characters of Fq, we’ll simply call them characters. The trivial character will be denoted by ε such that ε(a) = 1 for all a ∈ F×q . We extend the domain of a character χ such that χ(0) = 1 if χ = ε and χ(0) = 0 otherwise. We call the extension of χ an extended character and still denote the extension by χ if there is no danger of confusion. We fix a character χ of order ℓ. Then we have