CERTAIN DIAGONAL EQUATIONS AND CONFLICT-AVOIDING CODES OF PRIME LENGTHS 9

\begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|} \hline $q$ & 9 & 13 & 17 & 25 & 29 & 37 & 41 & 49 \\ \hline $g$ & $\boldsymbol{a}$ & 2 & 3 & $\boldsymbol{\beta}$ & 2 & 5 & 6 & $\boldsymbol{\gamma}$ \\ \hline $x$ & $\boldsymbol{a}$ & 4 & 6 & 1 & 4 & 2 & 3 & 2 \\ \hline $y$ & $\boldsymbol{a}$ & 1 & 2 & $\boldsymbol{\beta}^2$ & 4 & 2 & 3 & $2\boldsymbol{\gamma}$ \\ \hline \end{tabular}

√ √ √ √ √ −1 in F9 = F3( −1), β = 1+2 −1 where α = 1+ 2 in F25 = F5( 2) and γ = 4+ √ −1). in F49 = F7(

This completes the verifications of all cases in which Ng > 0. Moreover, we’ve exhib- ited all solutions (x,y) such that xy 6= 0 and thus finish the proof.

We would like to point out that it’s possible to prove Corollary 2.3 by using the bound (6) without applying the Hasse-Weil bound.

In view of Conjecture C, we only need to find a generator g of F×q such that Cg(Fq) is non-empty. Instead of computing Ng, our goal is to show that the following sum

$$
\mathcal{N}(q,\ell)=\sum_{\mathbb{F}_{q}^{\times}=\langle\mathfrak{g}^{\prime}\rangle}N_{\mathfrak{g}^{\prime}}=\sum_{\textup{1}\leq t\leq q-1,\atop\textup{gcd}(t,q-1)=1}N_{\mathfrak{g}^{\prime}}
$$

is a positive integer under appropriate conditions.

3. KEY INGREDIENTS

In this section, we gather tools and results that are needed for the proof of Theorem A. To simplify the notation, we’ll put (a1,a2) = gcd(a1,a2), the greatest common divisor of integers a1 and a2. The following lemma is an elementary fact in algebra which we will use repeatedly. As one can easily find a proof in any algebra text book, we skip the proof here.

Lemma 3.1. Let n ∈ N and let d be a divisor of n. Then the canonical group homomor- phism

$$
{\boldsymbol\pi}:(\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z})^{\times}\to(\mathbb{Z}/d\mathbb{Z})^{\times}
$$

induced by → Z/nZ Z/dZ 7→ k+nZ k+dZ

is surjective. Furthermore, this homomorphism splits. Namely, there exists a subgroup M of (Z/nZ)× which is isomorphic to (Z/dZ)× under π and (Z/nZ)× = M ·N where N = ker(π).

For n ∈ N and m ∈ Z, the Ramanujan’s sum cn(m) ([Ram18] or [HSW00, pp. 179– 199]) is defined by where ζn is a primitive n-th root of 1 in C. Studying on cyclotomic polynomials, O. Hölder [Höl36] showed that the sum cn(m) has a nice closed form in terms of the Euler and Möbius functions. Denote ϕ the Euler’s totient function and µ the Möbius function. We present it in the following lemma where the right-hand side is also called von Sterneck function [Ste03]. A proof is given below to the readers for convenience. For different proofs, one refers to [AA53], [Mol52] and [HW08, Theorem 272].

$$
\boldsymbol{c}_{\boldsymbol{n}}(\boldsymbol{m})=\sum_{\overset{1\leq t<n,}{(t,n)=1}}\boldsymbol{\zeta}_{\boldsymbol{n}}^{\boldsymbol{m t}}
$$