CERTAIN DIAGONAL EQUATIONS AND CONFLICT-AVOIDING CODES OF PRIME LENGTHS 3

Throughout this article we denote by H = 〈−1,2〉 the subgroup generated by−1 and 2 in F×p and set

$$
\ell_{0}=[\mathbb{F}_{\rho}^{\times}:\boldsymbol{H}]
$$

for the index ofH in F×p .Notice that if 4 ∤ op(2) then by definition we have thatO(p)= ℓ0. Furthermore, Conjecture A is a non-empty statement if and only if O(p) = ℓ0 ≥ 3.

The idea behind Conjecture A is the following. Suppose that Conjecture A holds, then each triple (ai,bi,ci) in the conjecture corresponds to a nonequi-difference codeword ⌊ ⌋

O(p)

xi = {0,ai,−ci} with difference set ∆(xi) = {±ai,±bi,±ci}. Hence, we have

nonequi-difference codewords whose difference sets are disjoint. From the complement p−1−2O(p)4 of ∪i=1∆(xi) in F×p , their algorithm then produces equi-difference codewords

and hence gives a CAC of size matching the upper bound given in (1).

As an illustration, we briefly discuss the case treated in [FLS14, Example 3] where the length p = 31. Note that o31(2) = 5 and hence O(31) = 3. Then Conjecture A predicts ⌊ ⌋

O(31) that there are 3 = 3 cosets and one element in each coset such that their sum is zero. One finds that the triple (2,3,−5) gives a solution and the corresponding codeword is {0,2,5}whose difference set is just {±2,±3,±5}while 2, 3 and−5 lie exactly in three

distinct cosets of H in F×p . Moreover, there are six equi-difference codewords {0,4,8}, {0,6,12}, {0,7,14}, {0,9,18}, {0,10,20} and {0,15,30} produced by their algorithm. In total, one concludes that the size of an optimal CAC of length 31 isM(31) = 7.

Independently, in [MZS14] the authors proposed a conjecture which provides solutions to the existence of the triples (Ai,Bi,Ci) in Conjecture A in terms of the group structure of F×p /H.

Conjecture B ([MZS14, Conjecture]). Let p be an odd prime. If ℓ0 ≥ 3, then there exist b ∈ gH and c ∈ g2H such that

$$
1+b+c=0\quad\mathrm{in~}\mathbb{F}_{p}
$$

for some generator g of F×p .

Remark 1.1. We see that Conjecture B implies Conjecture A by setting A1 = H, B1 = 2H, 3H, 4H, 5H, 3e−3H, . . . ,Ae = g gH, C1 = g A2 = g B2 = g C2 = g

Be = g3e−2H and ⌊ ⌋ ℓ0 3e−1H where e= . Moreover, Conjecture B does not assume that 4 ∤ op(2). Ce = g

Note that the subgroup H = 〈−1,2〉 consists of all the ℓ0-th power of elements of F×p . It follows that the elements b and c in Conjecture B are of the forms gyℓ0 and g2xℓ0

respectively for some x,y ∈ F×p . Observe that if ℓ0 ≥ 3 then any Fp-rational solutions ℓ0+gY ℓ0+1= (x,y) to the the diagonal equation g2X 0 must satisfy xy 6= 0 since−1 ∈H and g is a generator of F×p . Thus, any Fp-rational solution gives a pair of elements b and c in Conjecture B. So Conjecture B is equivalent to the following statement.