LIANG-CHUNG HSIA, HUA-CHIEH LI, ANDWEI-LIANG SUN

For ℓ ∈ N, let

$$
b(\ell)=(2^{\boldsymbol{o}(\ell)}(\ell-3-{\boldsymbol{\delta}})+2)^{2}-2
$$

be the lower bound appearing in Theorem A. Suppose that p is a prime number such that × the index ℓ0 of H in F satisfying b(ℓ0) ≤ 230, then either p ≤ 230 or p > 230 ≥ b(ℓ0). It follows that Conjecture C holds for this prime number p. This leads to the question about the integer ℓ such that b(ℓ) ≤ 230. The answer depends on the number of distinct prime divisors of ℓ. For ω(ℓ) < 4, one can check that b(ℓ) ≤ 230 if one of the following  conditions holds:

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{\ell<16411\mathrm{~with~}\boldsymbol{o}(\ell)=1,}\\ {\ell<8197\mathrm{~with~}\boldsymbol{o}(\ell)=2,}\\ {\ell<4100\mathrm{~with~}\boldsymbol{o}(\ell)=3.}\end{array}\right.
$$

Moreover, one also has b(ℓ) ≤ 230 whenever ℓ < 2070. As a consequence, we have the following result.

Theorem 5.1. Conjecture C holds for primes p with ℓ0 satisfying one of the following  conditions

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{\ell_{0}<\textrm{16411}\,\,\textit{with}\,\,\textit{o}(\ell_{0})=\textrm{1},}\\ {\ell_{0}<8197\,\,\textit{with}\,\,\textit{o}(\ell_{0})=\textrm{2},}\\ {\ell_{0}<\textrm{4100}\,\,\textit{with}\,\,\textit{o}(\ell_{0})=\textrm{3},}\\ {\ell_{0}<\textrm{2070}.}\end{array}\right.
$$

For an integer ℓ such that b(ℓ) > 230, we consider the set of prime numbers between 230 and b(ℓ). Let

$$
P(\ell)=\left\{\textup{primes}\,\boldsymbol{p}>2^{\textup{30}}\mid[\mathbb{F}_{\boldsymbol{p}}^{\times}:\langle -1,2\rangle]=\ell\,\,\textup{and}\,\,\boldsymbol{p}<\boldsymbol{b}(\ell)\right\}.
$$

For prime numbers in P(ℓ), we verify Conjecture C by the aid of computer for the com- putations. For instance, we obtain that P(2070) = ∅ and hence Conjecture C holds for prime numbers p with ℓ0 = 2070. By computer search, there are 423 primes in the union of P(ℓ) for 2070≤ ℓ≤ 3000. The largest prime number in the union is 7324065841 with ℓ= 2730.We have checked that Conjecture C holds for these prime numbers.

Theorem 5.2. Conjecture C holds for primes p such that [F×p : 〈−1,2〉]≤ 3000.

For the solvability of Equation (3), we have the following simple observation.

Proposition 5.3. Let ℓ be a proper divisor of q−1 and ℓ′ | ℓ. Suppose that Equation (3) is solvable over Fq for exponent ℓ then it is also solvable for exponent ℓ′.

Proposition 5.3 leads to the following consideration for q = p, a prime number, and p−1 ℓ = in Equation (3). In this case, L = {±1} and it suffices to consider the four possibilities ±g2± g+ 1 = 0 where g ∈ N is a primitive root modulo p (i.e. g is a gen- 2± erator of F×p ). Clearly, g g+ 1 = 0 if and only if g3 = ±1, and then p− 1 = 3,6.