LIANG-CHUNG HSIA, HUA-CHIEH LI, ANDWEI-LIANG SUN

Conjecture C. Let p be an odd prime. If ℓ0 ≥ 3, then there is a generator g of F×p such that the diagonal equation

$$
g^{2}{\mit\Delta}X^{\ell_{0}}+g{\mit\Upsilon}Y^{\ell_{0}}+{\bf1}=0
$$

(2)

is solvable over Fp.

The formulation in Conjecture C has the advantage that the number of Fp-rational solutions to Equation (2) can be computed in terms of certain character sums which have been well studied in number theory. By establishing valid cases in Conjecture C, we also obtain the cases where Conjecture B as well as Conjecture A are true. Therefore, by studying the solvability of Equation (2) over Fp, we are able to provide new results to the construction of optimal CACs.

Motivated by Conjecture C, instead of working on the diagonal equations as (2) over the prime field Fp and the specific exponent ℓ0, we will look at general situations by taking the base field to be a finite extension of Fp and the exponent in the equation is allowed to be more general than ℓ0. Let q be a prime power and ℓ be a proper divisor of q−1. We consider the solvability of the following diagonal equation

$$
{\textsl{g}}^{2}{\boldsymbol{X}}^{\ell}+{\textsl{g}}Y^{\ell}+{\textbf{1}}={\textbf{0}}
$$

(3)

over a finite field Fq of q elements, where g is a generator of the multiplicative group F×q of Fq. In view of Conjecture C, we’re interested in whether or not there exists a generator g such that Equation (3) has a Fq-rational solution. However, the answer can be false for divisors of q− 1 other than ℓ0. For example, in the case where (q, ℓ) = (13,6),(23,11) there does not exist any generator of F×q such that (3) has a Fq-rational solution. On the other hand, as a consequence of our main result below, Equation (3) does have a Fq- rational solution for some generator g of F×q provided that q≥ 19 if ℓ= 6 and q≥ 322 if ℓ = 11. Our first main result is to give a lower bound for q such that Equation (3) has a Fq-rational solution for some generator g of F×q .

Theorem A (= Theorem 4.3). Let q be a prime power and let ℓ be a proper divisor of q−1. If

$$
\boldsymbol{q}\ge(2^{\boldsymbol{o}(\ell)}(\ell-3-\boldsymbol{\delta})+2)^{2}-2
$$

where ω(ℓ) is the number of distinct prime divisors of ℓ and

$$
\boldsymbol{\delta}=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{1}&{\textit{if}4\mid\ell,}\\ {0}&{\textit{otherwise},}\end{array}\right.
$$

then there is a generator g of F×q such that Equation (3) is solvable over Fq.

Remark 1.2. It follows from the Hasse-Weil bound (see Theorem 1) that the number of √ Fq-rational solutions to Equation (3) is bounded below by q+1−2gℓ q where gℓ = (ℓ−

1)(ℓ−2)/2 is the genus of the curve defined by (3) over Fq. As a result, Equation (3) has a Fq-rational solution for any g ∈ F×q provided that q > (ℓ−1)2(ℓ−2)2. It is reasonable to expect that this lower bound can be improved under the weaker condition given in