CERTAIN DIAGONAL EQUATIONS AND CONFLICT-AVOIDING CODES OF PRIME LENGTHS 5

Conjecture C. What we have shown in Theorem A is that the improved lower bound has the order of magnitude O(ℓ2).

Theorem A gives a sufficient condition for the truth of Conjecture C (and so are Con- jecture A and B) in the case where q = p a prime number and ℓ = ℓ0. Thus, under the given sufficient condition an optimal CAC of length p with 4 ∤ op(2) and weight 3 has the desired size.

Corollary B. Let p be an odd prime such that 4 ∤ op(2), let ℓ0 = [F×p :H] and let ω(ℓ0),δ be as in Theorem A with respect to ℓ0. If p≥ (2ω(ℓ0)(ℓ0−3−δ )+2)2−2, then an optimal

conflict-avoiding code of length p and weight 3 has the size ⌊ ⌋

$$
\frac{p-1-2\ell_{0}}4+\left\lfloor\frac{\ell_{0}}3\right\rfloor.
$$

.

Applying Corollary B, we can establish the truth of Conjecture C unconditionally for primes with small values of ℓ0. For instance, if 1≤ ℓ0 ≤ 6 then Conjecture C is true (see, Corollary 2.3, 4.4 and 4.5). Combining the results computed in [MZS14], Theorem A confirms the validity of Conjecture C for a large range of ℓ0. For instance, if ℓ0 is prime power satisfying ℓ0 < 16411 or if it has two distinct prime divisors such that ℓ0 < 8197 then Conjecture C is true for prime numbers p with ℓ0 satisfying properties just stated (see Theorem 5.1 and Theorem 5.2 for more cases).

The organization of this note is as follows. In Section 2 we fix some notations and dis- cuss some well-known facts related to Equation (3). In particular, by applying Hasse-Weil bound, we give a proof of the facts that Equation (3) is solvable over Fq in the case where 1 ≤ ℓ ≤ 4 (Corollary 2.3). Then, we collect and prove necessary results that are needed in the proof of the main result in Section 3. One of the key ingredients is Ramanujan’s sum which we recall in Lemma 3.2. Section 4 is devoted to the proof of Theorem A. By appropriately organizing the character sum in the expression for the number of solu- tions to Equation (3), we are able to obtain the desired bound given in Theorem A for the number of solutions. In the final section, we apply our main result to the problem of the size of optimal CAC and deduce a large range of ℓ0 such that Conjecture C (as well as Conjecture B and A) hold.

2. PRELIMINARIES

In this section, we fix notations and present some facts that are related to the question of solvability of Equation (3). Let Fq be a finite field of q elements where q is a power of

the prime p. Fix a generator g of F×q and a proper divisor ℓ of q−1. Let L be the subgroup × of all ℓ-th power of elements of F×q .We have that F /L is generated by the coset gL and ℓ is the order of the cyclic group F×q /L.

Recall that we’re concerned with the solvability of Equation (3)

$$
{\textsl{g}}^{2}X^{\ell}+{\textsl{g}}Y^{\ell}+{\textsl{1}}={\textsl{0}}
$$