LIANG-CHUNG HSIA, HUA-CHIEH LI, ANDWEI-LIANG SUN

Let p be an odd prime and denote by Fp=Z/pZ a finite field of p elements. Recall that

a codeword of the form {0,a,2a} is said to be equi-difference. In the paper [LT05], the p−1 authors show that there exists an optimal CAC consisting of equi-difference code- words in the case where 4 | op(2). In contrast, if 4 ∤ op(2) then a CAC consisting of equi-difference codewords only is usually not optimal. By analyzing nonequi-difference codewords, an upper bound of the size of optimal CAC of odd length is given in [FLS14].

Let us recall their results for the case of CAC with prime lengths. Put 

$$
\mathscr{O}(p)=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}{\frac{p-1}{2o_{p}(2)}}&{\textup{if}\;o_{p}(2)\;\textup{is~odd},}\\ {\frac{p-1}{o_{p}(2)}}&{\textup{if}\;o_{p}(2)\equiv2\pmod4,}\\ {0}&{\textup{if}\;4\mid o_{p}(2)}\end{array}\right.
$$

and M(p) to be the size of optimal CAC of length p. Then, by [FLS14, Lemma 3] one has ⌊ ⌋

$$
\frac{\boldsymbol{p}-\boldsymbol{1}-2\mathscr{O}(\boldsymbol{p})}{\boldsymbol{4}}\leq\boldsymbol{M}(\boldsymbol{p})\leq\frac{\boldsymbol{p}-\boldsymbol{1}-2\mathscr{O}(\boldsymbol{p})}{\boldsymbol{4}}+\left\lfloor\frac{\mathscr{O}(\boldsymbol{p})}{\boldsymbol{3}}\right\rfloor.
$$

(1)

p−1−2O(p)

Note that in the case whereO(p)≤ 2, inequality (1) already gives thatM(p) = .

For O(p)≥ 3 the authors provide an algorithm for constructing nonequi-difference CAC p−1−2O(p) and conjectured that the algorithm produces a CAC consists of equi-difference ⌊ ⌋

O(p) codewords and nonequi-difference codewords. In other words, the upper bound in (1) can be attained and hence the CAC obtained by their algorithm is actually an optimal CAC. The key property needed for their algorithm to work is given as Conjecture A below. For our purpose, we rephrase their conjecture in terms of cosets of the subgroup generated by −1 and 2 in the multiplicative group F×p = Fp \{0} of Fp.

Conjecture A ([FLS14, Conjecture 1]). Let p be a non-Wieferich prime. Then there are ⌊ ⌋ ⌋,B⌊O(p) ⌋,C⌊O(p) ⌋ O(p) cosets A1,B1,C1, . . . ,A⌊O(p) of the subgroup generated by −1 ⌊ ⌋

O(p)

and 2 in F×p such that for each i= 1, . . . , there exists a triple (ai,bi,ci)∈Ai×Bi×Ci satisfying

$$
a_{i}\!+\!b_{i}\!+\!c_{i}=0\quad\mathrm{in~}\mathbb{F}_{p}.
$$