A&A proofs: manuscript no. aanda

Fig. 4: Maps of kinematic parameters. Top: Gas velocity disper- sion of the cloud traced using the DCO+ (3-2). Bottom: Cen- troid velocity map obtained fitting the observed DCO+ (3-2). The black vectors represent the polarization angles, tilted by 90 degrees to trace the magnetic field direction (Redaelli et al. 2019a). The blue and red arrows show the direction of the out- flow (PA = 35◦, from Bjerkeli et al. 2016), and the yellow arrow presents the mean velocity gradient direction around the core. The star shows the position of the protostar. The contours rep- resent N(H2) column density levels, as derived from Herschel data: [1.0, 1.5, 2.0] 1022 cm−2.

Fig. 5: Centroid velocity map of the DCO+ (3-2) line overlaid with the gradient arrows (only vectors with S/N > 3 are shown). The arrow length represents the relative vector magnitude of the gradient, according to the scale shown in the top left corner, and the direction of the arrows points to the steepest velocity field change.

rate changes by up to 70% if the inclination varies between 30 and 60 degrees. Therefore, considering these factors, we assume that the derived Ṁacc value is accurate within a factor of two. This mass accretion rate is comparable to the value that Pineda et al. (2020) found for a streamer of material connecting a pro- tostar, Per-emb-2 (IRAS 03292+3039), to the surrounding cloud (Ṁacc = 10−6Myr−1). The accretion rate that we calculate here is for a filament, not a streamer. However, this filament is diffuse and not very dense. Furthermore, the value we found is compa- rable to the mass infall rate of protostellar envelopes estimated in other young objects ∼ 3 × 10−6 (Evans et al. 2015).

We detect another velocity gradient around the protostar in the west–east direction, which could be due to the rotation of the core. In this scenario the rotation axis would lay in the north– south direction (PA = 16◦; see last paragraph of the section), close to the direction of the detected bipolar outflows found by Bjerkeli et al. (2016), which are shown with the blue and red arrows in the bottom panel of Fig. 4 (PA = 35◦). Redaelli et al. (2019a) also showed that this outflow direction is almost parallel to the mean magnetic field, which has the direction of PA=45±7◦. The black vectors in the bottom panel of Fig. 4 rep- resent the polarization angles, tilted by 90 degrees to trace the magnetic field direction. The rotation axis and magnetic field lines are moderately well aligned (with an offset of 29◦). Ac- cording to the magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) collapse models, magnetic braking should be effective in this cloud (Joos et al. 2012, Li et al. 2013, Krumholz et al. 2013, Seifried et al. 2015), which is consistent with the absence of a resolved Keplerian disk (down to 30 AU, Yen et al. 2017). Okoda et al. (2018) observed IRAS15398-3359 with better resolution (0.2” angular resolution). A disk of no more than 30 au in size was detected in their analysis with a mass between 0.006 and 0.001 M. This is a very small disk that is consistent with magnetic braking. Magnetic braking is in fact an efficient way to remove angular momentum from infalling and rotating material, suppressing en- velope fragmentation and the formation of large disks (Li et al. 2014).

The velocity gradient over the protostar shows gas motions likely consistent with the rotation of the core. To analyze the gas motions further, we employ a two-dimensional representation of the velocity gradients. Figure 5 shows the centroid velocity of DCO+ (3-2), overlaid with the gradient velocity arrows. The ar- row length represents the relative vector magnitude of the gra- dient and the direction of the arrows point in the direction of increasing velocity. The method used here followed the analysis of Goodman et al. (1993), and developed by Caselli et al. (2002), to find the velocity gradient based on a linear fit between offset declination and the velocity. By assuming that the core rotates as a solid body, VLSR would only depend on the coordinates in the sky and not on the distance along the line of sight. In this ap- proximation, the centroid velocity of the line is a linear function of the offset on the plane of the sky

$$
V_{\mathrm{LSR}}=V_{0}+a\Delta\alpha+b\Delta\delta,
$$

(4)

where ∆α and ∆δ represent offsets in right ascension and decli- nation, and V0 is the systemic velocity of the cloud with respect to the local standard of rest. The coefficients a and b, together with V0, can be obtained by least-squares fitting. The velocity √ gradient magnitude is then (Goodman et al. 1993)

$$
{\nabla V_{\mathrm{LSR}}=\sqrt{(a^{2}+b^{2})},}
$$

(5)

and its direction toward increasing velocity Θ∇V is given by

$$
\Theta_{\mathbb{V}}=\tan^{-1}\frac{a}{b}
$$

(6)

Article number, page 6 of 10