Farideh. S. Tabatabaei et al.: The kinematics of the magnetized protostellar core IRAS15398-3359

where Tex = 12 K is the excitation temperature (obtained from the Herschel dust temperature map, see also Sect. 4.1), TMB = 3.5K is the peak main beam temperature, the function Jν is the equivalent Rayleigh–Jeans temperature, and Tbg = 2.73 K is the cosmic background temperature. Therefore, we obtain τ = 0.66. For the DCO+ (3-2) line we obtain τ = 0.44 using TMB = 1.0 and Tex = 7 K. Through a combination of excitation and abun- dance, distinctive species give complementary information on gas conditions. Due to its relatively high abundance and low critical density ncr(C18O (2-1)) ∼ 104cm−3, computed with num- bers in the LAMDA database,3 C18O (2-1) is a sensitive tracer of relatively low-density material in the cloud, which traces the more extended gas in the filamentary structure. The DCO+ (3-2) molecule, on the other hand, presents a higher critical density ncr(DCO+(3 − 2)) ∼ 106cm−3, which makes it more selective of dense gas closer to the central protostar. DCO+ (3-2) emission is also known as a remarkably sensitive tracer for gas proper- ties during the early stages of protostellar evolution (e.g., Gerner et al. 2015). In the location of the protostar, we see a decrease in the C18O (2-1) integrated intensity, suggesting that the molecule is partially depleted onto the dust grains (Caselli et al. 1999, Bac- mann et al. 2002). Figure 2 shows the channel maps of the C18O (2-1) line. The figure presents the signal emission at velocity in- tervals of ≈ 0.2 km s−1.

4. Analysis

4.1. Column density maps

To calculate the column density map of these two molecules we used the same procedure as used in Redaelli et al. (2019b) and Caselli et al. (2002) for an optically thin transition. The DCO+ (3-2) and C18O (2-1) lines are both optically thin, as we show in the previous section. The expression of the total column density derived by an optically thin transition is given by

$$
N_{\textnormal{col}}=\frac{8\pi W\tau^{3}}{c^{3}A_{\textnormal{ul}}}\frac{\textcal{Q}(\textcal{T}_{\textnormal{ex}})}{J_{\textnormal{r}}(\textcal{T}_{\textnormal{ex}})-J_{\textnormal{r}}(T_{\textnormal{bg}})}\frac{e^{\frac{\textnormal{Eq}_{\textnormal{ex}}}{\textnormal{Eq}_{\textnormal{bg}}}}}{g_{\textnormal{r}}(\textcal{e}^{\frac{\textnormal{Eq}_{\textnormal{ex}}}{\textnormal{Eq}_{\textnormal{bg}}}}-1)}
$$

(2)

where Tex is the excitation temperature, the function Jν is the equivalent Rayleigh–Jeans temperature, Tbg = 2.73 K is cos- mic background temperature, Eu is the upper state energy, gu is the degeneracy, Aul is the Einstein coefficient, Q is the parti- tion function, ν is the line frequency, h is the Planck constant, kB is the Boltzmann constant (see Table 1 for details),4 and W is the integrated intensity of the line. Since the DCO+ (3-2) transition shows only one velocity component, we use the re- sult of the Gaussian fit to compute the integrated intensity of this line (see Sect. 4.2 for more details) by calculating the area under the Gaussian profile. The C18O (2-1) emission, instead, shows signs of multiple velocity components along the line of sight. We therefore compute the integrated the intensity from the data cube, integrating emission over the velocity range [4 - 6.5]km s−1, which contains the whole line profile.

We use the dust temperature map to approximate the excita- tion temperature for the C18O (2-1) line, obtained from Herschel data (Benedettini et al. 2018, Rygl et al. 2013) since we expect this line to be thermally excited. This assumption may induce some small errors as at the volume densities traced by the C18O (2-1) line the gas and dust are not thermally coupled (Goldsmith

Table 1: Spectroscopic parameters used to derive the molecular column density.

\begin{tabular}{cccccc} \toprule Transition & $\textit{v}$ & $g_{\text{u}}$ & $E_{\text{u}}$/10$^{-22}$ & $A_{\text{ul}}$/10$^{-3}$ & Q(7$^a$) \\ & (GHz) & & (J) & (s$^{-1}$) & \\[0.5em] \midrule C$^{18}$O (2-1) & 219.56 & 5 & 2.18 & 6.01 10$^{-4}$ & - \\ DCO$^+$ (3-2) & 216.112 & 7 & 2.86 & 7.65 & 4.40$^b$ \\ \end{tabular}

Note: All the data are from the Cologne Database for Molecular Spectroscopy (CDMS) documentation.4 The excitation temperature of C18O (2-1) is 7K. Calculated via interpolation of the Partition function available at CDMS, for different temperatures.

2001). We therefore use the dust temperature as a proxy for the gas kinetic temperature. On the contrary, the DCO+ (3-2) line is the 3–>2 transition, which has a high critical density; there- fore, the dust temperature is not a good approximation for exci- tation temperature because we expect the line to be subthermally excited, so we use excitation temperature equal to 7 K with a variation of 2 K for this line. The column density peak for the DCO+ and H2 is found at the protostar position. For the pro- tostar position, the C18O, DCO+, and H2 column densities are (7.8±0.1)×1014cm−2, 1.4+2.24 −0.5 ×10 12cm−2, and (4.2±1.8)×1022 cm−2 (Roy et al. 2014), respectively. The column density for H2 is obtained based on the Herschel map.

4.2. Spectral line analysis

In order to derive the kinematics parameter maps (e.g., Vlsr, σV), we perform a Gaussian fitting of the transitions using the pyspeckit package of python (Ginsburg & Mirocha 2011). For the DCO+ (3-2) data cube, we use a single-Gaussian component fit. The initial guesses are then 2.5 K, 5.2 km s−1, and 0.2 km s−1 for the amplitude, velocity dispersion, and width, respectively.

Instead, C18O (2-1) presents more complex kinematics. It of- ten shows two velocity components in its profiles. Since the line is optically thin, as shown in Sect. 3, we are confident that these are multiple velocity components and they are not due to self- absorption. In order to fit two Gaussian profiles on the C18O (2- 1) data we perform a simple S/N cut, we mask those pixels where peakMB rms < 20, then fit one Gaussian profile to all the unmasked pix- els (65% of the pixels). Then we fit two Gaussians for those pix- els that had a residual larger than 2× rms and those Gaussian fits with a width broader than 0.25 km s−1 in the previous step. By vi- sual inspection we find that lines broader than 0.25 km s−1 show profiles consistent with two velocity components on the line of sight. For the second time we check the Gaussian fit profiles and for those pixels that have residuals bigger than 2 × rms we do the fitting one more time with different initial guesses (60% of the pixels with S/N cut), which means they always have resid- uals less than two times the rms. As a final step, if the error on the velocity dispersion or velocity and on the amplitude is larger than 1 km s−1 and 1 K, respectively, we remove the fit. By doing this, we remove fits with unreasonably large uncertainties, which indicates that they have been poorly fitted. Figure 3 shows the fit results overlapped with the data.

The grid of spectra of C18O (2-1) and DCO+ (3-2) lines for 40 positions at 18 arcsec intervals from each other around the core is shown in Fig. 3 (for more details about the position of each spectrum, see Appendix A). The red histogram represents the DCO+ (3-2) spectrum and the black histogram is the C18O

Article number, page 3 of 10

https://home.strw.leidenuniv.nl/~moldata/ https://cdms.astro.uni-koeln.de/cgi-bin/cdmssearch