(A)

In order to measure the part of P that is induced by changes in the FX rate χ, we (t,T ] (A) decompose P as follows: (t,T ]

$$
P_{(t,T]}^{(A)}=\underbrace{\frac{A_{t}+A_{T}}{2}\left(\chi_{T}-\chi_{t}\right)}_{=:P_{(t,T]}^{(A)}(\chi)}+\underbrace{\frac{\chi_{t}+\chi_{T}}{2}\left(A_{T}-A_{t}\right)}.
$$

(2)

In the following paragraph, we further decompose AT −At into different parts. Section 2 first treats the case of assets subject to reinvestment, while Section 3 treats the general case and shows how to apply the methodology for whole portfolios of assets. Finally, Section 4 demonstrates our decomposition by an example and applies the methodology to a performance attribution for our fund XAIA Credit Debt Capital.

Remark 1.1 (Alternative FX performance decompositions)

The decomposition of the PnL into FX-induced part and non-FX-induced part (2) intu- itively assumes that (i) the whole FX rate difference χT −χt is earned on the arithmetic average of the asset values At and AT at the beginning and at the end of the period, and (ii) the performance due to asset value change AT −At is converted into EUR according to the arithmetic average of the initial and latest FX rates χt and χT . An alternative could be to only use At in (i) and χT in (ii), by replacing the decomposition (2) with the alternative definition

$$
P_{(t,T]}^{(A)}=\underbrace{A_{t}\left(\chi_{T}-\chi_{t}\right)}_{=:\tilde{P}_{(t,T]}^{(A)}(\chi)}+\chi_{T}\left(A_{T}-A_{t}\right)\!.
$$

(A) (A) While both definitions P and P̃ appear to be reasonable, we prefer (2). (t,T ](χ) (t,T ](χ)

We notice that this is different to the practice of using the column “Result curr. global” in the front office system SOPHIS for FX-hedged performance monitoring, because the latter essentially corresponds to the expression χT (AT −At).

Yet another, more theoretical, decomposition is obtained by assuming that both {Au}u∈(t,T and {χu}u∈(t,T are realizations of semi-martingales. The product formula then gives the ∫ ∫ identity

$$
P_{(t,T)}^{(A)}=\int_{(t,T]}A_{u}\,\mathrm{d}\chi_{u}+\int_{(t,T]}\chi_{u}\,\mathrm{d}A_{u}+[A,\chi]_{t}.
$$

In intuitive terms, the right-hand side of (3) is a limit expression as n→∞ of ∑ ∑ ∑

(3)

$$
\sum_{i=1}^{n}A_{u_{i-1}}\left(\chi_{u_{i}}-\chi_{u_{i-1}}\right)+\sum_{i=1}^{n}\chi_{u_{i-1}}\left(A_{u_{i}}-A_{u_{i-1}}\right)+\sum_{i=1}^{n}(A_{u_{i}}-A_{u_{i-1}})\left(\chi_{u_{i}}-\chi_{u_{i-1}}\right),
$$

where the partition t = u0 < u1 < .. . < un = T of the interval (t, T ] becomes finer and finer with increasing n. Under the assumption that A and χ are independent (or of finite- variation) the co-variation term [A,χ]t vanishes and we observe that our decomposition (2) can be viewed as a rough proxy for the remaining two integrals, when the integrand in both terms is replaced by the arithmetic average of start and end value. In contrast, the integral expressions in formula (3) take into account the whole path trajectories of A and χ on the interval (t, T ], and may thus be considered closer to reality. If one is not willing to assume that A and χ are independent, which is obviously an assumption that strongly depends on the considered asset A in concern, an FX decomposition becomes more difficult. For instance, if we assume that there is a positive probability that A and χ have common jumps and we observe such jump at u ∈ (t, T ], the expression [A,χ]t contains ∆Au∆χu. Which percentage of this expression should be attributed to the PnL induced by FX rate changes, and which to a change in the asset value? While this consideration based on the stochastic integral formula (3) might appear quite academic and difficult to implement in practice, it makes very clear in what sense our definition (2) can only be an approximation to reality.