3 Distributing assets and whole portfolios

In the logic of the aforementioned section it was important that the asset was subject to reinvestment, in the sense that it is not allowed that cash flows out of the asset, because this outflow would then be forgotten in the analysis. Now we take care about such potential outflows. Special attention is required in this case, because if at some time point u between t and T a certain cash amount2 cu flows out of the asset price Au, so that the price process jumps down by cu at time u, then the amount cu must somehow find its way into the PnL. The simplest possibility is to simply add cu to (A) the carry gain P and this is essentially what we do. Concretely, we assume (t,T ](carry), a decomposition t = u0 < u1 < .. . < um = T of the interval (t, T ] with u0, . . . , um being potential cash outflow dates (if no cash flows out at time T we assume cm = 0). With Au− denoting the asset price an instant before some cash outflow time point u, we notice that Aui = Aui−− cui , because the (dirty) asset price drops at time ui by the (A) coupon amount cui . With this terminology, the definition of P is enhanced (t,T ](carry) to become ∑

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{P_{(t,T]}^{(A)}(\mathrm{carry})=\displaystyle{\sum_{i=1}^{m}\frac{\chi_{u_{i-1}}+\chi_{u_{i}}}{2}\left(\frac{A_{u_{i}}(r_{u_{i}},x_{u_{i-1}})-A_{u_{i-1}}-(r_{u_{i}},x_{u_{i-1}})}{2}\right.}}\\ &{\quad\quad\quad\quad+\displaystyle{\left.\frac{A_{u_{i}}(r_{u_{i-1}},x_{u_{i}})-A_{u_{i-1}}-(r_{u_{i-1}},x_{u_{i}})}{2}+c_{u_{i}}\right)},}\end{array}
$$

(4)

and the total PnL is enhanced accordingly as well.

Here it is important to be aware that the FX rate χ enters at all coupon time points ui, and this is a definition that one should ponder about for a little while. The given formula simply assumes that there is zero PnL between ui and T arising from the coupon received at ui, but the PnL on the received EUR amount is “frozen” at time ui. Intuitively, at time ui the out-flowing EUR cash amount cui (χui−1 +χui)/2 goes into some other asset (Ã) and must be monitored in the PnL P for that other asset Ã. For instance, if nothing (ui,T ]

is done with this cash and it lays on some cash account during (ui, T ], one must monitor the PnL on that cash account, but this is not done here in our formula, because it is dedicated to the asset under concern only.

2Without loss of generality, only concerning terminology, we assume that A is a credit instrument and cu is a coupon payment at coupon date u, but it could as well be that A is a stock and cu a dividend payment.