nonlinear approximation provides better fitting of background region and more clear separation of different trends, however it should not be used for long post-experimental regions due to accumulation of errors.

Several examples of experimental data from the phase 2 are shown in Fig. 10. Since experiments involved several calorime- ters working in parallel (served also as control devices), medi- ators attempted to affect several of them during one session. We noticed two atypical behaviors of calorimeters installed in the same measurement room. First, if at the beginning of experiments only one targeted sensor/channel responded, as shown in Fig. 8(a), towards the end of all experiments several fluidic sensors may have responded (however, still with a dif- ference between targeted and not targeted channels). Second, as the experiments progressed, the water used in calorimeters exhibited increasing thermal fluctuations and therefore required

11.10, ext air, CYBRES EIS, Device ID:346060, Air temperature

11.10, CYBRES EIS, Device ID:346060, ext. air t (nonlin. regr. analysis)

Figure 9. Example of experiments in the phase 2: (a) differential temperature of fluidic and air sensors; (b) temperature dynamics in measurement laboratory; (c) convection-based fluctuations of temper- ature in measurement laboratory (regression analysis) measured by external air sensors; (d) dynamics of power supply for fluidic and air sensors. Grey bar shows an experimental session. Other examples of fluidic and environmental data are shown in Figs.10(d)-10(f).

12.10, setup 2, CYBRES EIS, Device ID:346122, temp. of fluids (nonlin. regression)

residual temperature, C