Intermixing-driven surface and bulk ferromagnetism in the quantum anomalous Hall candidate MnBi6Te10

Abdul V. Tcakaev,1, Bastian Rubrecht,3 Jorge I. Facio,3, Volodymyr B. Zabolotnyy,1, Laura T. Corredor,3 2

Laura C. Folkers,5, Ekaterina Kochetkova,3 Thiago R. F. Peixoto,6, Philipp Kagerer,6, Simon Heinze,7 Hendrik Bentmann,6, Robert J. Green,8, Pierluigi Gargiani,10 Manuel Valvidares,10 12, 2 Eugen Weschke,11 Maurits W. Haverkort,7 Friedrich Reinert,6, Jeroen van den Brink,3, 5, 2 3, ∗ 2, † Bernd Büchner,3, Anja U. B. Wolter,3, Anna Isaeva,13, and Vladimir Hinkov1, 1Physikalisches Institut (EP-IV), Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Universität Würzburg, Am Hubland, D-97074 Würzburg, Germany 2Würzburg-Dresden Cluster of Excellence ct.qmat, Germany 3Leibniz Institut für Festkörper- und Werkstoffforschung (IFW) Dresden, Helmholtzstraße 20, D-01069 Dresden, Germany 4Centro Atómico Bariloche, Instituto de Nanociencia y Nanotecnoloǵıa (CNEA-CONICET) and Instituto Balseiro. Av. Bustillo 9500, Bariloche (8400), Argentina.

5Institut für Festkörper- und Materialphysik, Technische Universität Dresden, 01062 Dresden, Germany 6Physikalisches Institut (EP-VII), Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Universität Würzburg, Am Hubland, D-97074 Würzburg, Germany 7Institute for Theoretical Physics, Heidelberg University, Philosophenweg 19, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany 8Department of Physics and Astronomy and Stewart Blusson Quantum Matter Institute, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada 9Department of Physics and Engineering Physics, University of Saskatchewan, SK S7N 5E2 Saskatoon, Canada 10ALBA Synchrotron Light Source, E-08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès, Barcelona, Spain 11Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie, Albert-Einstein-Straße 15, D-12489 Berlin, Germany 12Institut für Theoretische Physik, Technische Universität Dresden, D-01062 Dresden, Germany 13Van der Waals-Zeeman Institute, Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands (Dated: February 3, 2023)

The recent realizations of the quantum anomalous Hall effect (QAHE) in MnBi2Te4 and MnBi4Te7 benchmark the (MnBi2Te4)(Bi2Te3)n family as a promising hotbed for further QAHE improvements. The family owes its potential to its ferromagnetically (FM) ordered MnBi2Te4 septuple layers (SL). However, the QAHE realization is complicated in MnBi2Te4 and MnBi4Te7 due to the substantial antiferromagnetic (AFM) coupling between the SL. An FM state, advantageous for the QAHE, can be stabilized by interlacing the SL with an increasing number n of Bi2Te3 layers. However, the mechanisms driving the FM state and the number of necessary QLs are not understood, and the surface magnetism remains obscure. Here, we demonstrate robust FM properties in MnBi6Te10 ≈ (n = 2) with Tc 12K and establish their origin in the Mn/Bi intermixing phenomenon by a combined experimental and theoretical study. Our measurements reveal a magnetically intact surface with a large magnetic moment, and with FM properties similar to the bulk. Our investigation thus consolidates the MnBi6Te10 system as perspective for the QAHE at elevated temperatures.

I. INTRODUCTION

Theory provides a seemingly straightforward avenue towards novel quantum effects such as the quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) effect [1–5] and axion electrody- namics [6–9], namely to induce a long-range ferromag- netic (FM) order in topological insulators (TI) [10, 11]. The vision of observing Majorana fermions and imple- menting topological qubits at superconductor/QAH in- sulator interfaces [12], ultra low-power electronics [13] and applications in spintronics [14] has ignited substan- tial experimental efforts in this direction. Yet, hitherto

∗ Corresponding address: a.isaeva@uva.nl † Corresponding address: hinkov@physik.uni-wuerzburg.de

the QAH effect (QAHE) has only been demonstrated in the (sub-) kelvin range [3, 4, 15]. The experimental re- alization of the QAHE is complicated by several simul- taneous requirements to a candidate system: The Dirac point (DP) of the parent TI should be well within its bulk band gap; the chemical potential has to be tuned to the DP; the introduced magnetic subsystem should lead to a substantial surface ferromagnetism to open a large exchange gap at the DP; and the material’s bulk should remain insulating.

The first materials to exhibit the QAHE were extrin- sically doped (V/Cr)x(Bi,Sb)2−xTe3, which consist of van-der-Waals coupled quintuple layers (QL, see Fig. 1). However, band engineering by tuning the Bi/Sb ratio does not move the DP sufficiently above the valence band [16], V/Cr impurity bands overlap with the alleged ex- change gap [17] and residual bulk conductance destroys

arXiv:2302.01023v1 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] 2 Feb 2023