Table I. Slater integrals obtained from DFT and spin–orbit coupling constants in the Hartree-Fock approximation for the Mn2+ ion (in units of eV).

\begin{tabular}{llllllllll} \hline ion & state & configuration & $F^{(2)}_{dl}$ & $F^{(4)}_{dl}$ & $\zeta_{3d}$ &$\bar{F}^{(2)}_{pd}$ & $G^{(1)}_{p\bar{d}}$ & $G^{(3)}_{p\bar{c}}$ & $\zeta_{zp}$ \\ [3pt] Mn$^{2+}$ & initial & $2p^6 3d^5$ & $5.94323$ & $5.8132$ & $0.040$ & & & & \\ [3pt] & final & $2p^5 3d^6$ & $10.1963$ & $6.2899$ & $0.053$ & $5.3354$ & $3.8379$ & $2.1773$ & $6.846$ \\ \hline \end{tabular}

Mn d and ligand p orbitals. The resulting 3d electron fill- √ ing is nd = 5.31, corresponding to an effective 1.69+ va- 〈m2〉 = 5.67µB for the local lence. We obtain mspineff =

effective moment, as well asmspin = gs〈Sz〉 = 4.68µB and morb = gl〈Lz〉 = 0.008µB for the maximal z-projections of the spin and orbital moments, respectively.

Finally, we observe that the electron filling and the magnetic moments resulting from our MLFT analysis are in excellent agreement with those calculated based on the DFT-GGA+U calculations in sec. IIC: We obtain spin nd = 5.3 and m = 4.7µB using the same interac- tion parameters as in MLFT. These results are also in good agreement with the bulk magnetometry data (see sec. II B and Fig. 2), as well as with published neutron diffraction data [34, 48].

FIG. 5. MLFT analysis. (a) Background-corrected polarization-averaged experimental XAS spectrum (dashed line) together with a calculated MLFT spectrum (blue). The original, uncorrected data is shown above (green line). (b) Corresponding experimental and calculated XMCD spectra. The inset shows the contributions of different electronic con- figurations to the ground state. The vertical dashed lines highlight the positions of particular features of the spectra.

FIG. 6. Sum rule and peak asymmetry analysis of data mea- ≈ 3.5K and µ0H = 0.15T. sured on sample #4 at T (a) Polarization-averaged XAS intensity I (red line) together with the background (dashed line). (b) XAS spectrum after back- ground correction, together with the XMCD signal IXMCD (filled green curve). The peak intensities necessary for the asymmetry analysis are marked. (c) Integrated intensities of the XAS and the XMCD (multiplied by 5) spectra. The inte- grals p, q and r necessary for the sum rules are indicated with arrows. (d) Distribution of mspinXM obtained by randomly vary- ing the sum rule parameters within reasonable error margins, but not considering the uncertainty in the background choice (sec. II F and sec. S.V).