10

limited thermodynamic stability [31, 32] and, thus, of- fer very narrow growth temperature windows, their de- grees of intermixing appear to be far less dramatic than in MnSb2Te4 and, therefore, more challenging to trace experimentally. Less substitutional disorder than in the MSTn (on average) may be a blessing when it comes to optimizing an MBTn material’s system for the QAHE device fabrication [29].

In summary, the prominent ferromagnetic character- istics of our sample, with a rather large Tc, and a sub- stantial ordered, out-of-plane moment both in the bulk and at the surface, categorizes MnBi6Te10 as a particu- larly interesting candidate for the realization of a high- temperature QAH material [20, 25, 29, 37]. Moreover, a monolayer of ferromagnetic MnBi6Te10 appears as a per- spective candidate for magnetic extension [30, 76] and proximity setups, since an FM MnBi6Te10 slab was pre- dicted to exhibit QAHE [77].

IV. METHODS

A. Crystal growth and characterization

tometer equipped with a vibrating sample magnetome- ter (VSM) option (MPMS3). Our magnetization data on samples #1 − #4 are normalized to the real com- positions determined via EDX. To obtain the absolute magnetization M per Mn atom, a precise knowledge of the sample mass is important. Samples #1 and #4 have an approximately 10 times smaller mass than sample #2, increasing the error of M . Nevertheless, the data for all four samples agree well with each other (Fig. S4). Fur- thermore, we here refer to the projection of the total magnetic moment onto the z-axis (H||z), which is the quantity obtained from the SQUID magnetometry mea- surements, as mtotSQ.

A setup made of two half-cylindrical quartz rods fixed with a small quantity of GE varnish to the main quartz VSM sample holder was designed to ensure an align- ment of the crystals such that the external magnetic field was applied perpendicular to the crystal surface. Note that this setup, however, results in a rather temperature- independent (at not too low temperature) but non- negligible background contribution to the magnetic sus- ceptibility, hindering a reliable extraction of the Curie- Weiss constant θCW and the temperature independent susceptibility χ0 for our low-mass samples MnBi6Te10.

Pre-synthesized, phase-pure MnTe and Bi2Te3 pow- ders were mixed in a ratio 0.85 : 2 at. %, pelletized and placed in an evacuated quartz tube. This was inserted at T = 923K into a preheated two-zone tube furnace with temperature control via external thermocouples (Reetz GmbH). The ampule was subsequently cooled down to 858 K at a rate of 1 K/hour, tempered for 14 days and then quenched in water. Platelet-like MnBi6Te10 crystals (lateral size up to 1 mm) were mechanically separated from the obtained ingot.

Powder x-ray diffraction data were collected on an X’Pert Pro diffractometer (PANalytical) with Bragg- Brentano geometry (featuring variable divergence slits) operating with a curved Ge(111) monochromator and Cu-Kα1 radiation (λ = 154.056 pm). The phase com- position of the polycrystalline ingot and individual crys- tals was estimated by Le Bail or Rietveld methods in JANA2006 [78]. The preferred orientation of the crys- tallites was described by March-Dollase corrections, the roughness for the Bragg–Brentano geometry was ac- counted for by the Suorti method.

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed using a SU8020 (Hitachi) equipped with a X-MaxN (Ox- ford) Silicon Drift Detector (SDD) at Ua = 2−5 kV. The composition of selected single crystals was determined by semi-quantitative energy dispersive x-ray analysis at 20 kV acceleration voltage.

C. Bulk DFT (GGA+U) calculations

Fully relativistic DFT calculations based on the Gener- alized Gradient Approximation + U were performed with the parametrization of Perdew, Burke, and Ernzerf [38], using the full localized limit for the double-counting cor- rection with U = Udd (the latter as obtained in Sec. II E) (2) (4) (2) (4) and J = F /14, with F and F the Slater dd dd dd dd

integrals for the initial states presented in Table I. The spin–orbit coupling was included in the four-component formalism as implemented in FPLO. The total energy difference between the FM and A-type AFM configura- tions was computed using for Brillouin zone integrations a linear tetrahedron method. For MnBi6Te10, we use a mesh of the Brillouin zone having 14 × 14 × 14 subdi- visions. The magnetic anisotropy energy was calculated in the AFM state based on a mesh having 10 × 10 × 10 subdivisions. The Mn 3d occupancy and the spin projec- tion presented in the main text correspond to the gross projections. For the calculations of MnBi4Te7 based on a 2 × 1 × 2 supercell, we use a mesh with 6 × 12 × 2 subdivisions.

D. XAS and XMCD measurements

B. Bulk magnetometry measurements

Field and temperature dependent magnetization stud- ies were performed using a Quantum Design supercon- ducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magne- The XAS and XMCD measurements were performed using the high-field cryomagnet end station HECTOR of the BOREAS beamline at the ALBA synchrotron radi- ation facility [79] and at the high-field diffractometer at the UE46 PGM-1 beamline, BESSY II [80]. The single crystals were glued with conducting silver epoxy onto Cu