FIG. 2. SQUID magnetometry measurements. (a) Temperature-dependent normalized magnetization M/H of sample #2 with ZFC (orange symbols) and (FC (black symbols) protocols in an out-of-plane applied magnetic field of 10mT. The inset shows the inverse magnetic susceptibility in a magnetic field of 100mT together with a modified Curie-Weiss fit χ(T ) = χ0+C/(T−ΘCW) of the data above 100K (red solid line); for details see the Methods section. (b) Field-dependent magnetization of sample #2 measured in an out-of-plane applied magnetic field at T = 2K and 5K. No demagnetization correction was applied, and the magnetization was normalized to the Mn content obtained by EDX. (c) Temperature dependence of the normalized magnetization of analogously synthesized samples of the MBTn family for (n = 0, 1, 2, 3).

µ

ber of quintuple Bi2Te3 layers n increases: MnBi2Te4 (n = 0) has a clear A-type AFM structure, whereas MnBi4Te7 (n = 1) exhibits a more complex behavior, in which robust low-temperature metamagnetic proper- ties are established, which were shown to result from the competition between the uniaxial anisotropy K and the still sizable interlayer AFM interaction J [21]. Finally, in MnBi6Te10 (n = 2), as well as in MnBi8Te13 (n = 3), the FM properties clearly dominate, with FM order at the significant temperatures of Tc = 12K and 10K, re- spectively. Consistent with this observation, the spin-flop transition found for MnBi2Te4 and MnBi4Te7 at fields of 3.5 T [32, 35, 36] and 0.1–0.3 T [23, 26, 33, 37], respec- tively, is absent in MnBi6Te10, and a magnetic moment of more than 4µB is observed already above 80 mT in the latter after a ZFC procedure.

MnBi6Te10, with its lattice parameter c > 100 Å, would require a prohibitively long computational time. Instead, here we aim to learn the effects of Mn/Bi intermixing on magnetism via the simpler models of MnBi2Te4 and MnBi4Te7. The latter case is more representative of MnBi6Te10, since it contains both SLs and QLs, and is discussed in detail below, while the former is presented in the Supporting Information (Sec. IIIA). Here, we em- phasize one conclusion about MnBi2Te4: even though its defect-free form has the strongest AFM coupling between Mn in the consecutive SLs, based on our calculations, in- termixing can induce the FM order between the SLs even in this compound (Fig. S5 in the Supporting Informa- tion). Hence, the emergence of strong out-of-plane FM correlations due to the intermixing is likely to be univer- sally present in the MBTn family, including MnBi6Te10.

C. Bulk DFT (GGA+U) calculations

We have first performed fully relativistic DFT calcula- tions based on the Generalized Gradient Approximation (GGA)+U [38] for MnBi6Te10 neglecting the intermix- ing. For the interaction parameters, we have used the Slater integrals in Table I for the initial state. The results of total energy calculations for the A-type AFM config- uration favor the out-of-plane over the in-plane magne- tization by ∼ 0.4meV per Mn. Additional calculations indicate that the A-type AFM configuration has a lower energy than the FM configuration. However, the small magnitude of the difference, ∼ 0.04meV per Mn, natu- rally suggests that other mechanisms such as Mn/Bi in- termixing may well be relevant for the magnetic ground state.

Taking into account the Mn/Bi intermixing for As n increases, the possibilities for intermixing pat- terns naturally become larger as antisite Mn atoms can be located in the 6c positions (occupied by Bi in the defect-free case) of both the SLs and the QLs. MnBi4Te7 provides the minimal framework to explore whether this enlarged configuration space can yield variations in the experimentally observed ground states. We have per- formed scalar-relativistic calculations for various inter- mixing patterns and magnetic orders in a 2×1×2 super- cell of MnBi4Te7 (Fig. 3). In addition to the defect-free case (S0), we construct models (S1 to S15) with different Mn/Bi antisite defects, all of them globally stoichiometric and having a 50% fraction of Bi atoms in the 3aWyckoff site. Notice that this concentration is close to the out- come of our Rietveld refinements (∼ 44%). The models differ in the positions occupied by the antisite Mn atoms and can be classified into three categories. In the first category, the antisite Mn atoms reside in the 6c position of only the QLs (S1 to S4). Similarly, in the second cate- Bi Mn S12S7 S8