FIG. 3. Crystal- and magnetic-structure models and their DFT energies. (a) Schematics of the structure models with various Mn/Bi intermixing scenarios. S0 is the defect-free case while the panels from S1 to S15 visualize the structural differences to S0. Models S1 to S4: antisite Mn (green) is in the 6c site of the QLs; models S5 to S8: antisite Mn is in the 6c site of the SLs; models S9 to S15: antisite Mn is in the 6c positions of both QLs and SLs. (b) Schematics of the constructed magnetic arrangements. Each model has a distinct order between the Mn magnetic moments in the 3a and 6c positions which are conditioned by the respective structure model in (a). Ferromagnetic order with an out-of-plane orientation of the moments is assumed within each atomic layer. (c) Total energy difference between an antiferromagnetic ordering model (1, 2 or 3) of each structure model (S0 to S15) and the respective fully ferromagnetic configuration, as obtained from the scalar-relativistic DFT calculations. The dashed line follows the ground state energy, zero corresponding to the FM phase.

S7 S8 S9 S10 S11S6

S13 S14S12

gory antisite Mn occupy the 6c positions of only the SLs (S5 to S8). In the third category, the Mn atoms are dis- tributed over the 6c positions of both the QLs and the SLs (S9 to S15).

For each structure model, we consider four possible magnetic arrangements: a fully spin-polarized FM or- der and three different AFM models sketched in Fig. 3b. They all have in common that the Mn moments order FM within any given atomic layer, but vary in the magnetic couplings between the adjacent atomic layers along the stack. In the AFM1 and AFM2 models, the Mn spins in the two consequent 3a positions are oppositely coupled. The coupling between the 3a site and all intermixed Mn neighbours in the 6c site(s) is either AFM (AFM1) or FM (AFM2), respectively. The AFM3 model realises parallel spin arrangement in the 3a sites, while they couple AFM with the Mn defects in all 6c positions.

Fig. 3c discerns what is an energetically favorable mag- netic arrangement for each considered structure model of MnBi4Te7 as compared to the fully spin-polarized FM state. For a given model, if any AFM model obeys EAFM −EFM < 0, we conclude that antiferromagnetism is preferred. On the other hand, if all AFM models fulfill EAFM − EFM > 0, we define the fully FM phase as the ground state.

A clear trend in the magnetic order as a function of the underlying Mn/Bi intermixing pattern can be estab- lished. All but one models of the first two categories, where the intermixed Mn cations occupy either the SLs or the QLs, show an AFM configuration as the lower energy state. This preference reverts markedly if the an- tisite Mn distributes over the 6c positions of both the QLs and the SLs: five out of the seven constructed structure configurations of this category prefer the FM phase. A closer look reveals that the preference for the FM state is particularly prominent in those structure models (S12 to S15), in which the Mn cations occupy the nearby 6c po- sitions not separated by the 3a positions – namely, when continuous magnetic exchange pathways exist between the antisite Mn ions.

These results establish a strong correlation between the magnetic structure and the Mn distribution along the stacking direction. When an antisite Mn is located only in one of the two 6c positions of the QLs – a situation ex- perimentally found in Ref. [23] – our calculations suggest the prevalence of an AFM order. When Mn distributes both in the 6c of the QLs and SLs, which is the case of our samples according to our structure refinements, our calculations identify the FM phase as the ground state.