11

sample plates and mounted on the cold finger of a helium flow cryostat. Prior to the measurements, each sample was mechanically cleaved in the fast-entry chamber at a pressure of ∼10−9 mbar to expose a pristine surface. The sample was then transferred into the spectroscopy cham- ber with a pressure in the 10−11 – 10−10 mbar range.

The measurements were carried out in the TEY or FY mode at magnetic fields of up to 6T and at various tem- peratures in the 3.5–35 K range. The temperature was calibrated with a thermal sensor mounted at the sample position before the experiment. Especially below about 5K, the actual sample temperature crucially depends on the thermal contact, increasing its error as compared to higher temperatures. The spectral intensity was normal- ized by the incoming photon intensity (I0). We used circularly polarized light at both beamlines. The area probed by the beam at both facilities (about 120×80µm2) was much smaller than the sample size.

The raw XAS spectra were scaled with respect to each other to have the same intensity at energies far from the resonances to obtain Ileft and Iright. We define the XMCD signal as IXMCD = Ileft− Iright. The average, not background corrected XAS is I = (Ileft + Iright)/2. To cancel out any experimental drifts, for each data set we measured eight spectra in a row by altering the X-ray po- larization. Finally, the magnetic moments measured with XMCD are marked with the subscript XM, e. g. mtotXM. The Slater integrals for the MLFT calculations were (2) (4) obtained by DFT, where F and F were scaled up by dd dd

8% for the final state, improving the agreement to exper- iment. SO coupling constants were kept to the Hartree- Fock values [47]. ∆ = E(dn+1L) − E(dn), Udd and Upd were directly fitted to the experimental spectra, keeping Udd/Upd = 0.8 [85–88]. Experiments involving charge- neutral excitations such as XAS are only weakly sensitive to ∆, Udd and Upd. In our particular case we were fitting simultaneously XAS and XMCD spectra, which substan- tially mitigates these kind of problems. Our results are in good agreement with values reported for (Ga,Mn)As [89–93] and Mn-doped Bi2Se3 [55] and Bi2Te3 [94]. The other MLFT input parameters were estimated from DFT, and their values were subsequently adjusted to reproduce the experimental spectra. To simplify the calculation, in- stead of the trigonal C3v we work in Oh symmetry, with the C4 octahedral axes along the Mn-Te bonds, which has a negligible impact: Our simplification neglects the splitting of the t2g orbitals, which is tiny compared to 10Dq < 100meV, which in turn is smaller than the ex- perimental resolution.

F. XMCD Sum Rule and Peak Asymmetry

Analysis

The XMCD sum rules yield:

E. MLFT calculations

As a starting point to obtain input parameters for the MLFT modeling, self-consistent DFT in the linear density approximation is sufficient, which we performed using the FPLO package [81]. The Brillouin zone was sampled by a 2 × 2 × 2 k-point mesh. The exchange- correlation potential was treated in LDA, with the scalar relativistic functional according to Ref. 82. We have used the experimental crystal structure from Ref. 31: rhombohedral space group R3̄m (166), a = 4.37 Å and c = 101.83 Å, slightly distorted octahedral Mn coordi- nation with Mn-Te bond length of 3.00 Å (C3v crystal field symmetry). We obtained Wannier orbitals as input for MLFT by downfolding to a basis set of Mn 3d, Te 5p and Bi 6p orbitals in an energy window from −6 to 3 eV including an exponential decaying tail with a decay of 1 eV at the boundaries of the selected energy range.

The MLFT calculations were performed using the Quanty package [44, 83, 84] within the CI scheme consid- ering the nominal 2p63d5 (Mn2+) configuration and two further charge-transfer states d6L and d7L2. The spec- tral contributions from the split ground-state terms were weighted by a Boltzmann factor for T = 2K. The mean- field effective potential was modeled by an exchange field estimated from the Tc of 12K. Instrumental and lifetime effects were taken into account by a Gaussian broaden- ing of 0.35 eV (FWHM) and an E-dependent Lorentzian profile of 0.15− 0.35 eV (FWHM).

$$
m_{\mathrm{XM}}^{\mathrm{orb}}=-\frac{4}{3}\frac{q}{r}(10-n_{d}),
$$

(1)

$$
m_{\mathrm{XM}}^{\mathrm{spin}}=-\frac{6p-4q}{r}(10-n_{d})C+7\langle T_{z}\rangle,
$$

(10− nd)C + 7〈Tz〉, (2) where p and q are the XAS intensity differences (Ileft − Iright) integrated over the L3 edge and the entire L2,3 region, respectively (Fig. 6). The XAS intensity I, after background correction (sec. S.V-A), is integrated over L2,3 to yield r. 〈Tz〉 is the expectation value of the intra-atomic magnetic dipole operator which is −0.0002~ and hence negligible (sec. S.V-A). For nd we use the MLFT value of 5.31 (sec. II E). Finally, C is a correction factor, which takes into account the considerable overlap of the L3 and L2 contributions for light transition metals. We use a value of C = 1.4 (sec. S.V-A). To circumvent the difficulties related to this overlap, one can obtain mspinXM by a comparison of the experimental XMCD asymmetry at the L3 peak to the theoretical one calculated from MLFT spectra of comparable line width [52–54].

V. AUTHORS CONTRIBUTIONS

L.F., E.K. and A.I. conducted and analyzed the ex- perimental work related to crystal growth, XRD and