D. XAS and XMCD Data

To study the surface magnetic properties, we have per- formed x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measure- ments in the total electron yield (TEY) mode, which is element specific and has a probing depth on the nanome- ter scale. Measurements at the Bi N4,5 edges (Fig. S7b) exhibit no XMCD. More interestingly, there is no XMCD at the Te M4,5 edges either (Fig. S7a), which is in con- trast to results in the closely related V- and Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3 [39–42], and which might indicate differences in the magnetic interactions of both compounds.

Next we focus on the Mn L2,3 edge. Due to the shal- low escape depth, the topmost SL contributes the most to the signal. However, even for SL termination, the FM Mn sheet is buried about 0.55 nm below the surface, and significantly more for QL termination. Therefore, prob- ing depth effects have to be considered, when interpret- ing the ordered magnetic moments obtained with XMCD (see secs. II F and III). Fig. 4a compares XAS spectra measured with x-rays of opposite circular polarization at T ≈ 3.5K and a magnetic field of µ0H = 0.15 T along the

FIG. 4. X-ray spectroscopy data. (a) Mn L2,3 edge XAS data for sample #4 obtained with left (Ileft, blue) and right (Iright, red) circularly polarized light in normal incidence at T ≈ 3.5 K in a magnetic field of 0.15T. The corresponding XMCD signal IXMCD = Ileft− Iright is plotted below in green. The inset shows the angular dependence of the normalized remanent XMCD signal. (b) Magnetization curve of sample #4 (Iright − Ileft) at T ≈ 3.5K, obtained as the Mn L3 edge XMCD signal normalized by the XAS signal. (c) Temperature dependence of the remanent XMCD signal for sample #2 at the Mn L3 edge measured at normal incidence in TEY mode (red) and 10◦ off normal incidence in FY mode (orange).

surface normal; the bottom green line showcases the sub- stantial XMCD signal. In the inset we show that the peak remanent XMCD signal scales inversely with θ, where θ is the angle between the magnetization direction and the x-ray beam. This decline of XMCD is a strong indication of an out-of-plane easy axis for the Mn moments.

In Fig. 4b we show the magnetization obtained by mea- suring the peak L3 XMCD signal at T ≈ 3.5K within a field range of ±0.3T. It exhibits a substantial remanence at µ0H = 0T, in sharp contrast to MnBi2Te4, which ex- hibits no remanent magnetization, and MnBi4Te7, which has a smaller remanence-to-saturation ratio [26]. Fur- thermore, we observe a coercive field of µ0Hc = 45mT. We caution against overinterpreting the similarity of this Hc with the bulk one: First, the data were measured at somewhat different temperatures, which has an effect on Hc (Fig. 2). Second, different ramping speeds were used, which, too, has an effect on Hc for magnetic TIs [43]. In addition, the hysteretic behavior of surface and bulk might be intrinsically different.

Finally, in Fig. 4c we compare the T -dependent re- manent peak L3 XMCD signal measured with surface sensitive TEY with the one measured with bulk sensi- tive total fluorescence yield (FY). Within the precision allowed by the T increments of 2K, the transition tem- peratures at surface and bulk are consistent. We remark that the transition behavior as observed with SQUID and XMCD could differ somewhat due to the different mea- surement protocols: For XMCD, each point in Fig. 4c was obtained after driving to µ0H = 3T and back to remanence. In contrast, in SQUID measurements a con- ventional FC protocol at 10mT was used.

E. MLFT Calculations

The line shapes of the XAS and XMCD spectra contain important physical information, such as the d-electron configuration, including the local magnetic moments. Therefore, we have modeled our experimental data by MLFT (multiplet ligand-field theory). In our approach

[39, 44–46] (sec. IV), rather than relying on oversimpli- fied approximations, we adjust most of the MLFT pa- rameters to the data and obtain 10Dq = 0.06, 10DqL = 2Tpp = 1.9, ∆ = 1.1, Udd = 4.0, Upd = 5.0, Veg = 1.3 and Vt2g = 0.65 (all in units of eV). For the SO coupling constants, we use the Hartree-Fock values [47], whereas the Slater integrals are calculated based on DFT in the local density approximation (LDA, table I).

The calculated spectra (Fig. 5) show an excellent agreement with the experimental data, most notably for the XMCD, reproducing all the multiplet features and their relative energy positions. Whereas the nom- inal Mn2+ d5 configuration (6S5/2) dominates with 71%, there is significant charge transfer from the Te ligands, re- sulting in a 27% contribution of d6L to the ground state (d7L2 contributes negligibly, see the inset in Fig. 5b). This hints towards a considerable hybridization between