FIG. 1. Crystal structure properties. a) The unit cell of MnBi6Te10 is sketched by slabs of red and green boxes, where green indicates a septuple layer and red indicates a quintuple layer. In the expanded views we show the atomic structure. The QL and SL are interleaved by van der Waals gaps. b) Experimental (black) and refined by Rietveld method (red) powder X-ray diffraction pattern of the sample #2 in the 2θ range 5− 45◦. For the full 2θ range, see Fig. S1. The difference curve is shown in blue (Rp = 0.055, wRp = 0.071, GoF = 1.48). A small fraction of Bi2Te3 comprises 7 wt. % (R3̄m, a = 4.3797(4) Å, c = 30.4965(7) Å, Robs = 0.094, wRobs = 0.096, Rall = 0.109). The main phase is refined with the overall Mn0.8Bi6.2Te10 composition (R3̄m, a = 4.3667(2) Å, c = 101.869(4) Å, Robs = 0.079, wRobs = 0.074, Rall = 0.104).

or Mn0.8Bi6.2Te10) were introduced as constraints (see Supporting Information sec. I). When cation Mn/Bi in- termixing was allowed in the refinement, the reliability factors Rall and Robs dropped down significantly, con- firming that this phenomenon was undoubtedly present in the structure. Due to very low sample mass (1–2 mg), the acquired powder diffraction data did not allow us to settle in for just one particular intermixing model with a statistically unequivocal quantification. The refined Mn content is also strongly dependent on whether cation va- cancies are allowed in the refinement. We opted for a structural solution without voids in the 3a and 6c posi- tions. Despite the outlined uncertainties, all tested mod- els with various composition constraints have in common that: 1) the Mn:Bi ratio in the 3a position in the cen- ter of an SL is close to 56:44; 2) the outer cation site of an SL (6c) contains up to 2 % Mn; 3) the QL always accommodates some Mn (2–7 % Mn) in the 6c cation sites. The presence of Mn in all cation positions accords with our earlier reported refinement on Mn0.81Bi6.13Te10 single crystals [31] and is in contrast to the findings of Klimovskikh et al. [23]. Such subtle variations in inter- mixing patterns can dramatically impact the magnetic properties, as witnessed in the next subsection.

B. Bulk magnetometry

Fig. 2a shows the field-cooled (FC) and zero-field cooled (ZFC) normalized magnetization of sample #2 in an out-of-plane magnetic field of 10mT. A phase transition into a long-range magnetically ordered state is observed at Tc = 12.0K, determined by the inflec- tion point, together with a notable FC/ZFC splitting around 10K. These observations point towards a fer- romagnetic alignment of the Mn spins in our MnBi6Te10 samples and contrast with the antiferromagnetic tran- ∼ sition at TN 11K so far reported for the nominal MnBi6Te10 composition [23, 25, 27, 33, 34]. Our Curie- Weiss analysis in the temperature regime 100–400K (see inset of Fig. 2a and Sec. IV) yields an effective moment of meff = 5.8 ± 0.1 µB/Mn in close agreement with the value meff = 5.67µB calculated by multiplet ligand-field theory (MLFT) (sec. II E). The uniformity of all four MnBi6Te10 crystals is strongly supported by the nearly identical SQUID magnetometry curves (see Fig. S4), with transition temperatures that vary by only 0.1K. The magnetization curves M(H) in Fig. 2b show clear FM loop openings, with a coercive field of µ0Hc ∼ 32mT at T = 2K, and a finite remanent moment of mtotSQ = (3.9±0.2)µB/Mn at zero magnetic field. The moment at 0.15T is mtotSQ = (4.2± 0.2)µB/Mn.

It is furthermore interesting to compare our results to analogously synthesized samples of the MBTn family (Fig. 2c). We observe a noteworthy trend as the num- 0 . 5 0 cb