quantization with increasing temperature [18]. As a re- sult, the QAHE is stable only below TQAH = 20mK.

The intrinsic magnetic topological insulators (MnBi2Te4)(Bi2Te3)n (MBTn, n = 0 − 4), whose functional constituents are (MnBi2Te4) septuple layers (SLs) with the central sheet of FM-ordered Mn atoms, separated by n Bi2Te3 QLs, offer several advantages. Whereas for QL termination, angle-resolved photoemis- sion spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements on MBT1 and MBT2 yield similar results to (Bi,Sb)2Te3, without a discernible DP, there is a DP within the bulk gap for the SL termination [19]. Also, the topmost sheet of the ferromagnetically arranged Mn moments should strongly couple with the topological surface states (TSS), albeit a thorough spectroscopic investigation of the surface magnetism is still pending. As a result, a much higher TQAH = 1.4K is achieved in MnBi2Te4 [20]. This is despite the fact that MnBi2Te4 is suboptimal due to its antiferromagnetic (AFM) order (TN = 24K) and a complex layer-number dependence of the quantization effects, with an odd number of SLs required to realize the QAHE [20].

Yet, the potential of the other MBTn for a further substantial increase of TQAH is strong: Increasing n weakens the interlayer AFM coupling so that FM prop- erties gradually develop. Indeed, most studies report a complex metamagnetic behavior in MnBi4Te7 and MnBi6Te10 [21–27], but a clear FM state only for n ≥ 3 [22, 23, 28]. Already metamagnetic MnBi4Te7 hosts the QAHE up to several degree kelvin in the bulk regime [29]. This experimental realization of a QAHE device out of a bulk crystal required technically challenging but feasi- ble efforts to attain the charge neutrality condition [29]. Consequently, envisioning this clear, technical realization path once an appropriate bulk crystal exists, we focus here on the next obvious step, namely to strengthen the FM properties of MBTn. Our synthesis endeavors culmi- nate in the robust FM order in MnBi6Te10 (i.e. already for n = 2), an intrinsic magnetic TI [19] and QAHE can- didate [30].

We confirm the FM state both in the bulk and on the surface of MnBi6Te10 crystals by using bulk-sensitive superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometry and surface-sensitive x-ray magnetic cir- cular dichroism (XMCD). The clear FM characteristics seemingly contradict the weak AFM coupling anticipated by our density functional theory (DFT) calculations for the atomically ordered compound. This disagreement is resolved by including the experimentally determined Mn substoichiometry and Mn/Bi site intermixing into account. Our calculations pinpoint that the magnetic coupling can be tuned towards ferromagnetism by ap- propriate intermixing already in MnBi4Te7 and even MnBi2Te4. Considering the intermixing patterns in our MnBi6Te10 samples and those reported showing no ferro- magnetism, we rationalize their differing magnetic behav- ior. Our results demonstrate that carefully engineered in- termixing can accomplish a robust FM order and, there- fore, is the key towards enhanced QAHE properties in the MBTn family of intrinsic magnetic topological insu- lators.

II. RESULTS

A. Crystal growth and structure refinement

MnBi6Te10 crystals were grown by slow crystalliza- tion from a melt (see Sec. IV). Besides MnBi6Te10, the obtained ingot contained admixtures of Bi2Te3 and MnTe2 (see Fig. S1 in the Supporting Information). Ob- serving side phases fully agrees with our earlier stud- ies of MnBi6Te10 melting and decomposition by differ- ential scanning calorimetry [31]. Their occurrence can be related to crystal growth being a competitive process between MnBi6Te10, MnBi8Te13 and Bi2Te3, all having nearly the same crystallization temperatures.

A series of EDX (energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy) point measurements on individual crystals extracted from the ingot demonstrated a compositional range be- tween Mn: 5.0, Bi: 36.6, Te: 58.4 and Mn: 4.2, Bi: 37.1, Te: 58.7 (in at. %). Our samples were thus consistently more Mn-deficient than expected from the nominal chem- ical formula MnBi6Te10 of the atomically ordered mate- rial (Mn: 5.9, Bi: 35.3; Te: 58.8). Again, this echoes our earlier published single-crystal structure refinement of Mn0.73(4)Bi6.18(2)Te10 by x-ray diffraction [31], where we systematically showed that Mn-substoichiometry is determined by the Mn/Bi intermixing. Both fea- tures are also present in Mn0.85Bi2.10Te4 [32] and Mn0.75Bi4.17Te7 [26]. To facilitate perception, we denote our samples as MnBi6Te10 in the following text, keeping in mind that they are in fact substoichiometric.

The present study was performed on four individ- ual Mn-deficient MnBi6Te10 crystals (denoted as Sam- ple #1 − #4 henceforward; for their chemical com- positions (EDX) see Fig. S2). Powder x-ray diffrac- tion (PXRD) measurements, which required grinding the crystals to a homogeneous powder, were conducted af- ter all other measurements had been finalized, in or- der to elucidate the underlying intermixing phenomenon. We confirmed that all four samples exhibit the crystal lattice of MnBi6Te10 with a sequence of one SL and two QLs (Fig. 1a) plus notable cation antisite disorder. MnBi6Te10 constituted the main phase as per Rietveld method and we established a firm link between the Mn content as found by EDX and the underlying crystal lat- tice of MnBi6Te10 in our samples.

This approach is exemplified on Sample #2 (see Fig. 1b and more procedural details in the Supporting Infor- mation sec. I). We confirmed that sample #2 was ≈

Mn1−xBi6+xTe10 (x 0.20 − 0.25) which crystallized in the rhombohedral space group R3̄m (No. 166) with the unit cell lattice parameters a = 4.36778(8) Å and c = 101.8326(6) Å. To stabilize a further Rietveld re- finement, the EDX compositions (e.g. Mn0.76Bi6.24Te10