We now discuss the mechanism inducing the crossover from a pronounced AFM towards an FM order as the number n of the QLs in the MBTn stacking sequence in- creases (Sec. II B and Fig. 2). Our calculations for the ordered MnBi6Te10 (Sec. IIC) yield an – albeit small – AFM coupling. Although the increasing K/2J ratio with increasing n [21] certainly helps to stabilize the FM ≥ order for n nFM = 2 in our samples (see Sec. IIB and Fig. 2c), the fact that previous studies reported nFM = 3 [22–25] hints at an additional phenomenon be- ing involved. In sections IIA and IIC we have estab- lished the presence and the role of Mn/Bi antisite de- fects that can drive enhanced FM properties. As our numerical modelling has shown both for the MBT0 with the strongest interlayer AFM coupling and for the MBT1 with a periodic alternation of SLs and QLs, the motif of an intermixing pattern determines whether ferro- or an- tiferromagnetism is preferred. Hence, the observed mag- netic properties of our MnBi6Te10 samples likely origi- nate in a prevalence of intermixing patterns that favor the FM order.

In this context, a comparison between the MBTn series and the analogous Sb-based family (MnSb2Te4)(Sb2Te3)n (MSTn) becomes relevant. The FM order is more dominant even for n = 0 in MSTn and MBSTn, and, as widely accepted by now, is driven by the Mn/Sb intermixing [62–65]. This phenomenon is much stronger in MSTn than in MBTn since it is facilitated by closer atomic radii of Mn and Sb. On the other hand, the impact of the intermixing-induced FM state in MnSb2Te4 on its band topology is still under ongoing debate [9, 62, 63, 66–70]. Intrinsic p-type doping in MST0 hampers clear-cut spectroscopic observations of the possible surface states and, thus, an ultimate conclusion about its topological nature. Furthermore, QAHE realizations in the MSTn have not been reported. In fact, Ref. [63] argues the importance of further studies on how intermixing impacts bulk and surface magnetism in the established topological MBTn materials, but focuses on the MST0 instead, because the necessary intermixings were not accessible by the bismuth analog at that time. So far intermixing in the MBTn has been discussed mostly in the terms of its influence on the Dirac-point gap [71], while the consequences for the magnetism are quite unclear. En route to under- standing the broader role of intermixing, a recent study reveals its crucial influence on the magnetic coupling in MnBi2Te4 [72], and our current work pinpoints the particular antisite defects that enhance (or suppress) the local FM coupling in the MBTn series.

We have established that the FM properties of our crystals are conditioned by the underlying cation inter- mixing. It is instructive to examine whether this relation- ship holds true for the other published works. Whereas Mn deficiency in MnBi6Te10 is often found by x-ray spec- troscopy [22, 24, 25], the related intermixing has been scrutinized only in Ref. 23. On the one hand, their and our samples have such commonalities as the presence of Mn/Bi intermixing, the absence of cation vacancies, and a strongly mixed occupancy on the 3a site. On the other hand, there are also substantial differences: The mixed 3a occupancy is more pronounced in our sample, in which we find 56% Mn (and 44% Bi), than in the sample stud- ied in Ref. 23, which has 83% Mn (and 17 % Bi). Most importantly, the Mn distribution over the 6c positions is distinctly different: We observe a higher Mn concentra- tion in both 6c sites of the QLs, i.e. up to Bi1.86Mn0.14Te3 vs. Bi1.92Mn0.08Te3 in Ref. 23, and up to 2 % Mn in the outer positions of the SL that are reported defect-free in Ref. 23. In general, the 3a site in our crystals is more Mn-depleted, so that these “stray” Mn atoms, which find no space on the 3a site, disperse over the entire layered stack by occupying 6c sites. In accordance with our the- oretical deliberations in Sec. IIC (models S1 to S4), the less pronounced intermixing and the presence of swapped Mn only in one of the two 6c sites of the QLs in the sam- ples of Ref. [23] accords with them featuring an AFM ground state.

The question of why intermixing takes place and which kind of defects are more likely to occur is evidently very relevant and, at the same time, a complex one. First, recent literature has shown that antisite cationic defects have the lowest formation energy and are energetically favorable to form in both MnBi2Te4 and MnBi4Te7 [73]. It has been argued that such defects provide an effective way to release a lattice strain effect which occurs within the septuple layer of MnBi2Te4 due to a mismatch be- tween the MnTe and Bi2Te3 structure fragments. Sec- ond, as argued below, variations in the intermixing pat- terns of MnBi6Te10 samples produced by different groups may stem from subtle differences in the synthetic pro- cedures, pointing to the relevance of finite temperature effects for the relative stability of different defects. This would be no surprise since these compounds are formed at elevated temperatures and are metastable at room tem- perature as we have previously shown [31, 32].

Comparing our growth conditions (see Sec. IV) for MnBi6Te10 to those of Refs. 23, 33, and 34 reveal differ- ences in dwelling times, the starting and quenching tem- peratures, and the composition of a melt, which may well account for the various intermixing patterns. In general, we observe reproducible Mn concentrations and magnetic behavior in our MBT2 crystals (Fig. 2 and Fig. S4) for an applied tempering profile [31, 74], suggesting that the cation intermixing is a temperature-regulated phe- nomenon. We do not argue that this process is fully governed by the thermodynamics, since crystallization of the MBTn from a heterogeneous melt is strongly kinetics- driven. Yet it seems plausible, that the resulting inter- mixing pattern is governed by a given synthetic proto- col. Strong correlations between the synthesis tempera- tures and the resultant cation disorder and magnetic or- der have been, by now, undoubtedly established at least for MnSb2Te4 [62, 74, 75]. Since the Bi-analogs have