ELLIPTIC CURVES WITH POSITIVE RANK AND NO INTEGRAL POINTS 5

Again, by assuming finiteness of the Tate-Shafarevich group, the non-degenerate alternating pairing onX(ED′)[3] implies that this group is of even dimen- sion as an F3-vector space and we obtain the congruence relation

$$
r(E$_{D}$^{\prime})\equiv r(\mathcal{S}_{3}(E_{D^{\prime}}))\equiv r(\mathcal{S}_{\phi}(E_{D^{\prime}}))+r(\mathcal{S}_{\phi}(\hat{E}_{D}))\equiv1\;\mathrm{mod}\;2.
$$

(13)

The last two equivalences follow from (11) and Proposition 3.1. 4. The Escalatory Case and No Integral Points

In the previous section we established that the elliptic curves ED′ have odd rank. In this section, we will define a subfamily of these curves and show that this subfamily cannot have integral points.

Let us first recall a classical result of Scholz regarding the rank of the 3-part of the ideal class group of quadratic number fields. The interested reader may refer to [18, Section 10.2] for more details on Scholz’s Theorem.

Theorem 4.1. Reflection Theorem of Scholz

√ √ −3d). If 3|d then Let d > 1 be square-free. Let F = Q( d) and K = Q( √ −d/3). Then rF ≤ rK ≤ rF + 1.

let K = Q(

Definition 4.2. With notation as in Theorem 4.1, we define as escalatory the case where rK = rF + 1 and as non-escalatory the case where rK = rF .

The terms escalatory and non-escalatory are used for example in [9, Chapter 4]. Specifically, in Section 4.10 of [9], it is shown that in the case of negative fundamental discriminant d, the escalatory case is equivalent to the non-existence of cubic fields of discriminant 34d. Translating this to our notation, we have

′) Remark 4.3. If r3(D) = r3(D + 1 then there are no cubic fields of dis- criminant 34D.

We will not explain in this paper the proof of this result. We only need to mention that the proof requires the use of the so-called 3-virtual units, which we also use here and we define right before Proposition 4.8. These 3-virtual units live in the quadratic resolvent KD′ and give rise to cubic extensions of KD. The interested reader will find all the necessary theory in [9, Chapter 4] and [6, Section 5.2.2], and may find more on the relation between 3-virtual units, ideal class groups and elliptic curves in [1].

Before we go on to prove that the subfamily of elliptic curves ED′ with ′)+1 have no integral points, let us show the relation between r3(D) = r3(D

the non-escalatory case r3(D) = r3(D′) and the existence of a cubic field of discriminant 34D, via elliptic curves, with the following example. Let us note that the discriminant D = −1355 of the example does not belong to the set of discriminants that we consider in this paper, since −1355 ≡ 1 mod 3. This is not important though since it does not affect the purpose of the example.

Example 4.4. Consider the negative fundamental discriminantD = −1355. ′) We have r3(D) = r3(D = 1 and so we are in the non-escalatory case. To show the existence of a cubic field of discriminant equal to 34D, which is expected according to [9, Section 4.10], we can look for an irreducible poly- nomial of discriminant 34D or equivalently for rational solutions u, v such that