ELENI AGATHOCLEOUS

With D satisfying the conditions in (1), let r(Sφ(ED′)) and r(Sφ̂(ÊD)) Sφ(ED′) denote the rank, as F3-vector spaces, of the Selmer groups and Sφ̂(ÊD), relative to the isogenies φ and φ̂, of the curves ED′ and ÊD respec- tively, over Q. Denote by r3(D) and r3(D′) the rank of the 3-part of the ideal class group CL(KD) and CL(KD′) of KD and KD′ respectively. In the next section we will compute the precise rank for the Selmer groups Sφ(ED′) and Sφ̂(ÊD) and obtain a parity result regarding the rank of the curves ED′ .

3. On the 3-Selmer group and rank of the elliptic curves ED′

By employing the results of Satgé [12, Section 3], we compute below the precise rank for the Selmer groups Sφ and Sφ̂:

Proposition 3.1. With D satisfying the congruence conditions in (1), the rank of the Selmer groups Sφ(ED′) and Sφ̂(ÊD) of the curves ED′ and ÊD are as follows:

$$
r(\mathcal{S}_{\phi}(E_{D^{\prime}}))=r_{3}(D^{\prime})
$$

$$
r(\mathcal{S}_{\hat{\phi}}(\hat{E}_{D}))=r_{3}(D^{\prime})+1.
$$

Proof. Our elliptic curves ED′ have a constant term equal to 16D′ > 0. With D′ squarefree and with 24||16D′, Lemma 3.1 in [12] is vacuously true. ≡ 2 mod 3, we have Now 3||16D′ and, given the congruence condition D

that −16D ≡ 1 mod 3. Therefore, from Proposition 3.2(1) of [12] we have that r(Sφ(ED′)) = r3(D′). Finally, since 16D′ > 0, Proposition 3.3.(1) of

[12] gives r(Sφ̂(ÊD)) = r3(D′) + 1.

As in Remark 2.3, we denote by S3(ÊD) and S3(ED′) the 3-Selmer group of the corresponding elliptic curves. Its rank will be denoted by r(S3(ED′)) and similarly for ÊD. We now consider the exact sequence ([11, Corollary 1]) (10)

$$
0 → \frac{{\hat{E}}_{D}(\mathbb{Q})[{\hat{\phi}}]}{{\phi}(E_{D^{\prime}}(\mathbb{Q})[3])}\to{\mathcal{S}}_{\phi}(E_{D^{\prime}})\to{\mathcal{S}}_{3}(E_{D^{\prime}})\to{\mathcal{S}}_{\hat{\phi}}({\hat{E}}_{D})\to\frac{{\mathrm{III}}({\hat{E}}_{D})[{\hat{\phi}}]}{{\phi}({\mathrm{III}}(E_{D^{\prime}})[3])}\to0.
$$

(11)

Since our curves have no rational 3-torsion points, the first term of (10) is trivial. As it is known, because of the non-degenerate alternating pairing on X(ÊD)[φ̂] (defined by Cassels in [4]), this last term is an even-dimensional φ(X(ED′)[3]) F3-vector space (assuming finiteness of the Tate-Shafarevich group). There- fore, we obtain the following result regarding the parity of the rank of the 3-Selmer group and the ranks of the two Selmer groups Sφ(ED′) and Sφ̂(ÊD):

$$
r(\mathcal{S}_{3}(E_{D^{\prime}}))\equiv r(\mathcal{S}_{\phi}(E_{D^{\prime}}))+r(\mathcal{S}_{\hat{\phi}}(\hat{E}_{D}))\;\mathrm{mod}\;2.
$$

Corollary 3.2. The elliptic curves ED′ have odd rank.

Proof. Given Remark 2.3, the exact sequence analogous to (9) is

$$
0 → ˆ E$_{D}$ (QQ) / 3( E$_{D}$ ′ (QQ)) → S $_{3}$( E$_{D}$ ′ (QQ)) → III( E$_{D}$ ′ (QQ))[3] → 0.
$$

(12) 0→ ÊD(Q)/3(ED′(Q))→ S3(ED′(Q))→X(ED′(Q))[3]→ 0.