ELENI AGATHOCLEOUS

Theorem. By using the connection between the points of ED′(Q) and the √ so-called 3-virtual units of Q( D′), we show that the elliptic curves of this

subfamily, even though they have non-trivial rank, they cannot have any in- tegral points. In the final section we discuss the case of positive fundamental discriminant D and derive a result for this case as well.

2. Definitions and Preliminaries

The notation and definitions of this section will carry throughout the paper. For the theory and proofs of the facts that we present here, the in- terested reader may refer for example to [12], [15, Chapter X.4 and Appendix B], [17] and [5, Chapter IV].

For any number field M/Q, denote by E(M) the group of points of the elliptic curve E defined over M . Let M denote the algebraic closure of M . We denote by D < −4 every squarefree integer which satisfies the following two congruence relations

$$
D\equiv1\bmod4{\mathrm{~and~}}D\equiv2\bmod3.
$$

(1)

We denote be D′ the, also squarefree, integer D′ = −3D and by KD the √ √ imaginary quadratic field KD = Q( D) with KD′ = Q( D′) its so-called quadratic resolvent.

Let us note here that, given the congruence conditions in (1), the follow- ing congruences always hold:

$$
D\equiv5{\mathrm{ mod~}}12{\mathrm{~and~}}D^{\prime}\equiv9{\mathrm{ mod~}}12.
$$

We define the j-invariant zero elliptic curves

$$
E_{D^{\prime}}:y^{2}=x^{3}+16D^{\prime}.
$$

(2)

The torsion group √

$$
\mathcal{T}_{D^{\prime}}=\{O,(0,\pm4\sqrt{D^{\prime}})\}\subseteq E_{D^{\prime}}(\overline{{\mathbb{Q}}})
$$

is a subgroup of ED′(Q) of order 3 and is invariant under the action of GQ = Gal(Q/Q). The quotient of ED′ over TD′ defines a family of isogenous elliptic curves, which are defined as

$$
{\hat{E}}_{D}:Y^{2}=X^{3}+16\cdot3^{4}D.
$$

(3)

As expected, the torsion group for these curves is √

$$
\hat{\mathcal{T}}_{D}=\{O,(0,\pm36\sqrt{D})\}\subseteq\hat{E}_{D}(\overline{{\mathbb{Q}}}).
$$

Let φ denote the rational 3-isogeny

$$
\phi:E_{D^{\prime}}\rightarrow\hat{E}_{D}
$$

with kernel kerφ(Q) = TD′ . The isogeny φ is given by the map ([7, Proposi- tion 8.4.3])

$$
(X,Y)=\phi((x,y))={\Big(}{\frac{x^{3}+4^{3}3^{4}D}{x^{2}}},{\frac{y(x^{3}-2\cdot4^{3}3^{4}D)}{x^{3}}}{\Big)}.
$$

(4)