ELENI AGATHOCLEOUS

is in Z[x] and is of discriminant exactly 34D. √ √ B + D′ ∈ OD′ . We see that b+ D′ Consider the element λ =

$$
\lambda{\bar{\lambda}}=(\frac{A}{4})^{3}=a^{3}
$$

and

$$
\lambda+\bar{\lambda}=\frac{B}{4}=b.
$$

∈ Given the polynomial g(x) Z(x) above, [9, Proposition 4.1(1)] implies that λ is a 3-virtual unit.

Denote by Λ the element of K×D′ : √

$$
\Lambda=2^{3}\lambda=\frac{2B+8\sqrt{D^{\prime}}}{2}=B+4\sqrt{D^{\prime}}\in K_{D^{\prime}}^{\times}.
$$

We recognise that Λ is the image of the point P = (A,B) under the Funda- mental 3-Descent Map Ψ, as this map is described for example in [7, §8.4.4] or [1]. Since by [7, Proposition 8.4.8]

$$
\Psi(E_{D^{\prime}}(\mathbb{Q}))/\hat{\phi}(\hat{E}_{D}(\mathbb{Q}))\cong\subseteq K_{D^{\prime}}^{\nabla}/(K_{D^{\prime}}^{\nabla})^{3},
$$

then indeed, by Lemma 4.5, Ψ(P ) = Λ ≡ λ ∈ K×D′/(K×D′)3. Then, by [9, Proposition 4.1 (2)], g(x) is irreducible over Q. Finally, we see that λ is a primitive 3-virtual unit and therefore, by [9, Theorem 4.4], g(x) generates a cubic field of discriminant 34D, which leads to a contradiction since we are in the escalatory case.

Case (b): Both A and B are odd. Then g(x) /∈ Z[x] but the follow- ing polynomial f(x) does have integer coefficients and it is of discriminant 8234D:

$$
f(x)=x^{3}-3Ax+2B\in\mathbb{Z}[x].
$$

As above, let √

$$
\Lambda=2^{3}\lambda=\frac{2B+8\sqrt{D^{\prime}}}{2}=B+4\sqrt{D^{\prime}}\in K_{D^{\prime}}^{\times}/(K_{D^{\prime}}^{\times})^{3}.
$$

We see that ΛΛ̄ = A3 and Λ + Λ̄ = 2B and therefore, by [9, Proposition 4.1, (1) and (2)], Λ is a 3-virtual unit and f(x) is irreducible in Q[x]. Fur- thermore, since B is odd, Λ is a primitive 3-virtual unit and again, by [9, Theorem 4.4], f(x) generates a cubic field of discriminant 34D, which leads to a contradiction since we are in the escalatory case.

Let us remark here that if 3 divides either A or B, then 9|16D′ which is impossible. Hence, in both Cases (a) and (b) of Propositon 4.8 above, the irreducible polynomials g(x) and f(x), both in Z[x], are in standard form, as this is defined in [9, Section 4.4].

5. The case of positive squarefree D and Final Remarks

A natural question to ask is what happens when we consider discrimi- nants D > 4 where the same equivalence relations (1) hold. In this case, −16 · 3D the constant term 16D′ = of our elliptic curves ED′ would be negative. By following the same steps of the proof of Proposition 3.1 and by employing the same result of Satgé for this case of negative constant term, we obtain