ELENI AGATHOCLEOUS

$$
\mathrm{disc}(x^{3}-ux+v)=4u^{3}-27v^{2}=3^{4}D\iff(4v)^{2}=(\frac{4}{3}u)^{3}-3\cdot16D.
$$

(14)

Therefore, we looked for rational points on the elliptic curve

$$
E_{D^{\prime}}:y^{2}=x^{3}+16D^{\prime}.
$$

The integral point P = (64, 572) gives u = 48 and v = 143 and indeed the cubic polynomial g(x) = x3 − 48x + 143 is irreducible in Q[x] and has discriminant equal to 34D. −4

Lemma 4.5. Let D < be any squarefree integer which satisfies the congruence relations in (1). Let ED′ be the elliptic curves that we have ∈ defined above. If there is an integral point P ED′(Z), then this point cannot be the image of any point Q = (x̂, ŷ) ∈ ÊD(Q).

Proof. We can write Q as

$$
Q=(\hat{x},\hat{y})=(\frac{X}{Z^{2}},\frac{Y}{Z^{3}})=(\frac{x}{3^{(2c-a)}z^{2}},\frac{y}{3^{(3c-b)}z^{3}}),
$$

≥ where a, b, c 0, 3a||X, 3b||Y , 3c||Z, and the symbol ‘||’ means divides exactly. Since Q ∈ ÊD(Q) we must have

$$
3^{(2b-3a)}y^{2}=x^{3}+3^{(6c-3a+4)}16Dz^{6}.
$$

We immediately see that we cannot have 6c− 3a+ 4 = 0 because, if either a or b is not zero then 3|4 which is absurd, and if a = c = 0 then 4 = 0, also absurd.

Case (a): Let us call Case (a) the case where a = b = c = 0.

If at least one of the a, b or c is not zero, we need to examine the following cases:

Case (b): If 6c− 3a+4 = 2b− 3a (which implies that 2b− 3a 6= 0), then 2y

. Plugging it into the equation of ÊD this b = 3c + 2 and therefore ŷ = z3 2x implies that x̂ = . In this case we must also have that a = 2c+ 2. z2

Case (c): If 6c− 3a + 4 6= 2b− 3a and 2b− 3a 6= 0, then we arrive at a

contradiction since we always have that 3 must divide one of the terms y, x or 16 ·Dz6, hence this case cannot happen. 6=

Case (d): If 2b − 3a = 0 (and therefore 6c − 3a + 4 2b − 3a) then b = 3a/2 and a must be even.

Assume now that P = φ̂(Q), where φ̂ is defined as ([7, Proposition 8.4.3]):

$$
(A,B)=\hat{\phi}(\hat{x},\hat{y})=\Big(\frac{\hat{x}^{3}+4^{3}3^{4}D}{9\hat{x}^{2}},\frac{\hat{y}(\hat{x}^{3}-2\cdot4^{3}3^{4}D)}{27\hat{x}^{3}}\Big).
$$

Substituting Q in (14), the y-coordinate in particular gives the relation

$$
3^{(3+3c-b)}Bx^{3}z^{3}+3^{(4+6c-3a)}2^{7}yz^{6}D=yx^{3}.
$$

(15)

In Case (a), a = b = c = 0 and equation (15) implies that 3|yx3, im- possible. Hence, if Case (a) holds, then P cannot be the image of any point Q ∈ ÊD(Q).