ELLIPTIC CURVES WITH POSITIVE RANK AND NO INTEGRAL POINTS 9

$$
r({\cal S}_{\phi}(E_{D^{\prime}}))=r_{3}(D^{\prime})=r({\cal S}_{\phi}(\hat{E}_{D})).
$$

Hence, from the same discussion that follows Proposition 3.1, including the proof of Corollary 3.2, we obtain the following parity relation between the rank of our curves with positive squarefree D and their Selmer group

$$
r(E_{D^{\prime}})\equiv2r_{3}(D^{\prime})\equiv0\bmod2.
$$

So the rank of our elliptic curves must be even in this case and might even be zero. The equivalent of Remark 4.3 for D > 4 is that there are no cubic fields of discriminant 34D when we are in the non-escalator case, i.e. when ′). r3(D) = r3(D Since Lemma 4.5 and Proposition 4.8 hold for this case as well, we see that the subfamily of curves ED′ withD > 4 and r3(D) = r3(D′) has no integral points.

A final question, which constitutes the topic of an upcoming paper of ours, concerns the study of the the groupX(ED′)[φ], for both D < −4 and D > 4. By studying the exact sequence in (9) and by following a constructive approach via binary quadratic forms, similar to that in [1], we show how to construct curves that violate the local-global principle in the case that X(ED′)[φ] is not empty.

References

[1] E. Agathocleous: On the Selmer group and rank of a family of elliptic curves and curves of genus one violating the Hasse principle, (Under Review) (2022).

[2] M. Bhargava, A. Shankar, T. Taniguchi, F. Thorne, J. Tsimerman, Y. Zhao: (2017) Bounds on 2-torsion in class groups of number fields and integral points on elliptic curves, https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1701.02458.

[3] W. Bosma, J. Cannon and C. Playoust: The Magma algebra system. I. The user language, J. Symbolic Comput., 24 (1997), 235–265.

[4] J. W. S. Cassels, Arithmetic on curves of genus 1, IV, Proof of the Hauptvermutung, J. Reine Angew. Math. 211, (1962), 95-112.

[5] J.W.S. Cassels and A. Fröhlich: Algebraic Number Theory Proceedings of an Instructional Conference Organized by the London Mathemati- cal Society (a NATO Advanced Study Institute) with the Support of the International Mathematical Union, London Mathematical Society, 2010.

[6] H. Cohen: Advanced Topics in Computational Number Theory, Springer-Verlag New York, 2000.

[7] H. Cohen: Number Theory Volume I: Tools and Diophantine Equations, Springer-Verlag, 2007.

[8] D.A. Cox, Primes of the form x2 + ny2: Fermat, Class Field Theory and Complex Multiplication, Wiley, 1989.

[9] S. Hambleton and H. Williams: Cubic Fields with Geometry, Springer Nature Switzerland Ag, 2018. [10] H. A. Helfgott, A. Venkatesh: Integral Points on Elliptic Curves and 3- torsion in Class Groups, Journal of the American Mathematical Society 19(3), (2006), 527-550.