ELLIPTIC CURVES WITH POSITIVE RANK AND NO INTEGRAL POINTS 7

In Case (b), where b = 3c+2 and a = 2c+2, equation (15) implies that 3|27yz6D which is impossible. Hence, if Case (b) holds, then P cannot be the image of any point Q ∈ ÊD(Q).

In Case (c) we have nothing to show since this case cannot happen. In Case (d), b = 3a/2 and a must be even. We rewrite equation (15) as

$$
3^{2+(3c-b+1)}(Bx^{3}z^{3}+3^{(3c-b+1)}2^{7}z^{6}yD)=yx^{3}.
$$

(16)

Denote by ε the common exponent ε = 3c− b+ 1.

If ε ≥ 0, equation (16) implies that 3|yx3, a contradiction.

If ε = −1 then b = 3c+ 2 and we are in Case a.

If ε ≤ −2, equation (16) implies that 3|27z6yD, a contradiction.

Hence, if Case (d) holds, then P cannot be the image of any point Q ∈ ÊD(Q).

Having exhausted all possible cases, we see that P cannot be the image of any point Q ∈ ÊD(Q) and the lemma is proved.

Before we move on to Proposition 4.8, we need the following two defini- tions.

Definition 4.6. Given an order O, we say that a proper O-ideal a is primi- tive if it is not of the form ka for 1 < k ∈ Z and a a proper ideal ([8, §11.D, pg.214]). We will call an element π primitive if (π) is a primitive ideal.

The second definition is a very brief definition of what we call a 3-virtual unit. The reader may find more on 3-virtual units in [1], and on l-virtual units in general in [6, Section 5.2.2].

∈ Definition 4.7. An element α K×D′ is a 3-virtual unit of KD′ if there exists an ideal a in the maximal order OD′ of KD′ such that αOD′ = a3.

Proposition 4.8. As before, D is a negative fundamental discriminant sat- isfying the congruence relations in (1). The subfamily of elliptic curves ED′ ′) for which r3(D) = r3(D + 1 holds, have odd rank and no integral points.

Proof. The fact that the whole family of elliptic curves ED′ has odd rank was proved in Corollary 3.2. Assume now that we are in the escalatory case and assume by way of contradiction that an elliptic curve ED′ in this subfamily has an integral point P = (A,B) ∈ ED′(Z). Plugging the point back in ED′ and modifying the coefficients a little we obtain

$$
3^{4}D=4({\frac{3A}{4}})^{3}-27({\frac{B}{4}})^{2}.
$$

Case (a): From the equation of ED′ , we see that if either A or B is even then so must be the other one, since B2 = A3 − 3 · 16D. From the same equation we see that B must actually be divisible by 4 exactly, since 2 ∤ D. Let A = 2a and B = 4b. Cancelling out the 16 we end up with 2a3 = b2 + 3D. Since D ≡ 1 mod 4 and b is odd, we have a contradiction unless 2|a. Therefore, if both A and B are even then we must have that 4||B and 4|A. This implies that the monic polynomial

$$
g(x)=x^{3}-{\frac{3A}{4}}x+{\frac{B}{4}}=x^{3}-3ax+b
$$