is most prevalent.

For a single point of introduction, the time scale that convergence happens on is of the same order as that of the spatial effects, compare Figure 1 left column in this paper to Figure 1 in [14]. This means that both contributions have to be considered simul- taneously. However, spatial dynamics and network models also include local outbreaks that have a brief, but fierce growth, even on a population level if the prevalence is low [16].

While the time scale τ is used here for the mixing of groups, the same mechanism also applies to the competition between variants with different growth rate, or a combination of the two. The latter can be achieved with a block-diagonal contact matrix.

V. CONCLUSION

In the above we have investigated the transient effects of SEIR-models when initializing the system away from the dominant eigenvector and the conse- quences for the observed growth rate.

As expected, an outbreak starting in the more ac- tive groups converges faster, and the same is true for a more infectious disease. The significant part is the time scale on which the convergence occurs. It turns out that, using realistic parameters, the growth rate has converged within three weeks, which also means that it is safe to estimate it at this point.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Funding and data provided by Statens Serum In- stitut, Denmark.

VI. BIBLIOGRAPHY

[1] R. Ross, An application of the theory of probabilities to the study of a priori pathometry - Part I, Proc.

R. Soc. Lond. A92204–230 (1916).

[2] G. Bastin, Lectures on Mathematical Modelling of Biological Systems, (2012).

[3] H. Weiss, The SIR model and the Foundations of Public Health, Materials Matemàtics 0 (2013). [4] Q.-H. Liu, M. Ajelli, A. Aleta, S. Merler, Y. Moreno, and A. Vespignani,Measurability of the epidemic re- production number in data-driven contact networks, PNAS 115(50)12680-12685, (2018).

[5] A. Nava, A. Papa, M. Rossi, and D. Giuliano, Analytical and cellular automaton approach to a generalized SEIR model for infection spread in an open crowded space Phys. Rev. Research 2, 043379 (2020).

[6] G. Bertaglia and L. Pareschi, Hyperbolic models for the spread of epidemics on networks: kinetic de- scription and numerical methods, ESAIM: M2AN 55, 2, 381-407 (2021).

[7] Q. Zhuang and J. Wang, A spatial epidemic model with a moving boundary Infectious Disease Mod- elling, 6, 1046-1060 (2021).

[8] Ó. Toledano, B. Mula, S. N. Santalla, Javier Rodríguez-Laguna, and Ó. Gálvez, Effects of con- finement and vaccination on an epidemic outburst: a statistical mechanics approach, Phys. Rev. E 104, 034310 (2021).

[9] A. Triska, A. Y. Gunawan, N. Nuraini, Outbreak spatial pattern formation based on an SI model with the infected cross-diffusion term, J. Math. Com- puter Sci., 27 1–17 (2022).

[10] P. A. Werner, M. Ksik-Brodacka, K. Nowak, R. Ol- szewski, M. Kaleta, and D. T. Liebers, Modeling the Spatial and Temporal Spread of COVID-19 in Poland Based on a Spatial Interaction Model, IS- PRS Int. J. Geo-Inf., 11, 195 (2022).

[11] M. Cabrera, F. Córdova-Lepe, J. P. Gutiérrez-Jara et al., An SIR-type epidemiological model that in- tegrates social distancing as a dynamic law based on point prevalence and socio-behavioral factors, Sci Rep 11, 10170 (2021).

[12] M. Bisiacco and G. Pillonetto, COVID-19 epi- demic control using short-term lockdowns for collec- tive gain, Annual Reviews in Control, 52, 573-586 (2021).

[13] https://covid19.ssi.dk/analyser-og- prognoser/modelberegninger (In Danish, visited 2022-12-21).

[14] A. Mielke, On the Role of Spatial Effects in Early Estimates of Disease Infectiousness: A Sec- ond Quantization Approach, arXiv:2205.15718 [q- bio.PE] (2022).

[15] F. P. Lyngse et al., Household transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in Denmark, Nat.

Commun. 13 (1), 5573 (2022).

[16] T. Y. Michaelsen et al., Introduction and transmis- sion of SARS-CoV-2 lineage B.1.1.7, Alpha variant, in Denmark, Genome Medicine 14 (47) (2022).