Convergence to the Equilibrium State in an Outbreak: When Can Growth Rates Accurately be Measured?

Adam Mielke∗

Dynamical Systems, Technical University of Denmark, Asmussens Allé, 303B, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark

Lasse Engbo Christiansen†

Statens Serum Institut, Artillerivej 5, 2300 Copenhagen S, Denmark (Dated: February 3, 2023)

We investigate sub-leading orders of the classic SEIR-model using contact matrices from modeling of the Omicron and Delta variants of COVID-19 in Denmark. The goal of this is to illustrate when the growth rate, and by extension the infectiousness, can be accurately measured in a new outbreak, e.g. after introduction of a new variant of a virus. We find that as long as susceptible depletion is a minor effect, the transients are gone within around 4 generations.

I. INTRODUCTION

The exponential growth regime of a stratified SEIR-model is well-described [1–3] where the growth rate is equal to the largest eigenvalue of the gener- ator matrix. However, this requires the system to be in the corresponding eigenstate, which is rarely the case, as the introduction of a disease often comes from a few single individuals.

The non-exponential growth has significant con- sequences for estimate of infectiousness at the in- troduction of a new disease or variant, because the growth rate is commonly used here. It is there- fore essential to understand when an outbreak ac- tually follows the largest eigenvalue, and, by ex- tension, when the Corrections to the exponential growth from other effects such as spatial spread have already been investigated [4, 14], whereas this paper will focus on the convergence to the eigenstate. This is of particular interest when comparing the relative infectiousness of a emerging new variant versus ex- isting variants, see for instance [15].

the following system of differential equations

$$
\dot{S}=-\mathrm{diag}(S)\beta I
$$

$$
\dot{E}=\mathrm{diag}(S)\beta I-\eta E
$$

(1)

.

$$
\dot{I}=\eta E-\gamma I
$$

$$
\dot{R}=\gamma I+\sigma H
$$

The states S, and R represent the fraction E, I, of the population that are susceptible, exposed, in- fectious, and recovered respectively, and the param- eters η and γ are rates for the incubation and in- fection states respectively. The matrix β contains the contacts between each group, e.g. between age groups.

We will start with some theoretical observations about time scales, and then we will illustrate the convergence with numerical solution of Equation (1) while comparing to the theoretical time scale.

II. TIME SCALE OF SOLUTION

CONVERGENCE

We will be working in a stratified SEIR-model framework, which has been the basis of multiple ef- forts to predict the real-world spread of disease, es- pecially in recent years [4–13]. That is, we start with

∗ admi@dtu.dk † lsec@ssi.dk

Given some initial condition φ(0), where φ(t) = E(t) , we make the decomposition ∑ I(t)

$$
\phi(t)=\sum_{j}\alpha_{j}\hat{e}_{j}e^{r_{j}t}
$$

(2)

for small t, where êj is the j′th eigenvector of the generator matrix

$$
G=\left(-\eta\,{\bf 1\!\!1}\;\;\;\mathrm{diag}(S)\beta\right)\;.
$$

(3)

arXiv:2302.01076v1 [q-bio.PE] 2 Feb 2023