MARK PANKOV, ADAM TYC

[10] M. Győry, Transformations on the set of all n-dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving orthogonality, Publ. Math. Debrecen 65 (2004), 233–242.

[11] H. Havlicek, On Plücker transformations of generalized elliptic spaces, Rend. Mat. Appl. (7) 15 (1995), 39–56.

[12] S. Kakutani, G. W. Mackey, Ring and lattice characterizations of complex Hilbert space, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 52(1946), 727–733.

[13] L. Molnár, Transformations on the set of all n-dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving principal angles, Comm. Math. Phys. 217 (2001), 409–421.

[14] L. Molnár, Selected Preserver Problems on Algebraic Structures of Linear Operators and on Function Spaces, Lecture Notes in Mathematics 1895, Springer, 2007.

[15] L. Molnár, Maps on the n-dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving principal angles, Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 136 (2008), 3205–3209.

[16] M. Pankov, Grassmannians of classical buildings, World Scientific, 2010.

[17] M. Pankov, Wigner-type theorems for Hilbert Grassmannians, London Mathematical Soci- ety Lecture Note Series 460, Cambridge University Press, 2020.

[18] M. Pankov, T. Vetterlein, A geometric approach to Wigner-type theorems, Bull. London Math. Soc. 53 (2021) 1653–1662.

[19] M. Pankov, K. Petelczyc, M. Żynel, Automorphisms and some geodesic properties of ortho- Grassmann graphs, Electron. J. Comb. 28(2021), P4.49.

[20] K. Prażmowski, M. Żynel, Orthogonality of subspaces in metric-projective geometry, Adv. Geom. 11(2011), 103–116.

[21] P. Šemrl, Orthogonality preserving transformations on the set of n-dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space, Illinois J. Math. 48 (2004), 567–573.

[22] P. Šemrl, Wigner symmetries and Gleason’s theorem, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 54 (2021), 315301.

[23] U. Uhlhorn, Representation of symmetry transformations in quantum mechanics, Ark. Fysik 23 (1963), 307-340.

[24] Z. Wan, Geometry of Matrices, World Scientific, 1996.

[25] E.P. Wigner, Gruppentheorie und ihre Anwendung auf die Quantenmechanik der Atomspek- tren, Fredrik Vieweg und Sohn, 1931 (English translation Group Theory and its Applications to the Quantum Mechanics of Atomic Spectra, Academic Press, 1959).

Mark Pankov: Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Warmia and Mazury, Sloneczna 54, 10-710 Olsztyn, Poland

Email address: pankov@matman.uwm.edu.pl

Adam Tyc: Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Warmia and Mazury, Sloneczna 54, 10-710 Olsztyn, Poland

Email address: adam.tyc@matman.uwm.edu.pl