MARK PANKOV, ADAM TYC

If H is infinite-dimensional and f is a bijective transformation of Remark 1. Gk(H) preserving the ortho-adjacency in both directions, then X → f(X⊥)⊥ is a bijective transformation of Gk(H) which also preserves the ortho-adjacency in both directions. If the latter transformation is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator U , then f is also induced by U .

The following example shows that the above statement fails for bijective trans- formations of G∞(H) preserving the ortho-adjacency relation in both directions. Let U be a non-identity unitary operator on H which preserves a certain connected component C ⊂ G∞(H). Consider the bijective transformation f of G∞(H) defined as follows: f(X) = U(X) if X ∈ C and f(X) = X if X 6∈ C. It is clear that f is ortho-adjacency preserving in both directions.

Let f be a bijective transformation of G∞(H) which preserves the Theorem 1.

ortho-adjacency relation in both directions. Then the restriction of f to every con- nected component of G∞(H) is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator or it is the composition of the orthocomplementary map and a map induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator.

The restrictions of f to distinct connected components can be related to different operators.

3. A characterization of adjacency in terms of ortho-adjacency

If X,Y ∈ G∞(H) are not ortho-adjacent and there is Z ∈ G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to both X,Y , then one of the following possibilities is realized: • X,Y are adjacent; • X ∩ Y is of codimension 2 in both X,Y .

Indeed, X ∩ Z and Y ∩ Z are hyperplanes of Z and X,Y are adjacent if these hyperplanes coincide; the same holds if the hyperplanes are distinct and their in- tersection is a proper subspace of X∩Y ; we obtain the second possibility only when the hyperplanes are distinct and their intersection coincides with X ∩ Y .

Let X,Y be compatible elements of G∞(H) whose intersection is of Lemma 1.

codimension 2 in both X,Y . Then there is Z ∈ G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to both X,Y . For every such Z there are precisely two elements of G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to each of X,Y, Z.

Proof. The orthogonal sum of X∩Y , a 1-dimensional subspace of X∩(X∩Y )⊥ and a 1-dimensional subspace of Y ∩ (X ∩ Y )⊥ is an element of G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to both X,Y .

Let Z be an element of G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to both X,Y . The subspaces X,Y, Z are mutually compatible and there is an orthonormal basis B of H such that each of these subspaces is spanned by a subset of B. Then X ∩ Y and the 2-dimensional subspaces

$$
X^{\prime}=X\cap(X\cap Y)^{\perp},\;\;Y^{\prime}=Y\cap(X\cap Y)^{\perp}
$$

are also spanned by subsets of B. Furthermore, X ∩ Y is contained in Z and

$$
P=Z\cap X^{\prime},\;\;Q=Z\cap Y^{\prime}
$$

′ are 1-dimensional. Let P and Q′ be the 1-dimensional subspaces which are the ′ ′, orthogonal complements of P in X and Q in Y respectively. Since each of the ′, subspaces P, P Q,Q′ contains a vector from the basis B, the subspaces