map. At the end (Section 5), we explain why a similar statement is not proved for the adjacency relation and invertible bounded linear or conjugate-linear operators.

2. Main result

LetH be a complex Hilbert space of dimension not less than 3. For every positive k(H) integer k < dimH we denote by Gk(H) and G the Grassmannians formed by k-dimensional subspaces of H and closed subspaces of H whose codimension is k, respectively. Note that Gk(H) = Gn−k(H) if dimH = n is finite. In the case when H is infinite-dimensional, we write G∞(H) for the Grassmannian of closed subspaces of H whose dimension and codimension both are infinite. k(H) Let G be one of the Grassmannians Gk(H),G or G∞(H). ElementsX,Y ∈ G are called adjacent if X ∩ Y is a hyperplane in both X,Y . In the case when G is 1(H), G1(H) or G any two distinct elements of G are adjacent. Recall that two closed subspaces of H are compatible if there is an orthonormal basis of H such that each of these subspaces is spanned by a subset of this basis. We say that X,Y ∈ G are ortho-adjacent if they are adjacent and compatible.

Elements X,Y ∈ G are said to be connected if there is a finite sequence

$$
X=X_{0},X_{1},\ldots,X_{m}=Y
$$

of elements of G such that Xi−1, Xi are adjacent for every i ∈ {1, . . . ,m}. This holds if and only if

$$
\dim(X/(X\cap Y))=\dim(Y/(X\cap Y))<\infty.
$$

k(H). Consequently, any two distinct elements of G are connected if G is Gk(H) or G ′ If adjacent Z,Z ∈ G are not ortho-adjacent, then there is an element of G ortho- ′. adjacent to both Z,Z Therefore, for any connected X,Y ∈ G there is a finite sequence

$$
X=X_{0}^{\prime},X_{1}^{\prime},\ldots,X_{m^{\prime}}^{\prime}=Y
$$

′ ′ of elements of G such that X X are ortho-adjacent for every i ∈ {1, . . . ,m′}. i−1, i

Let X ∈ G∞(H). Consider the subset of all elements of G∞(H) connected with X . Any two distinct elements of this subset are connected; furthermore, the subset is maximal with respect to this property. Every such subset will be called a connected component of G∞(H).

Every unitary or anti-unitary operator on H induces bijective transformations k(H) of Gk(H),G and G∞(H) which preserve the ortho-adjacency relation in both directions. The orthocomplementary map X → X⊥ is a bijection of Gk(H) to Gk(H) and a bijective transformation of G∞(H) preserving the ortho-adjacency in both directions.

Two 1-dimensional subspaces of H are ortho-adjacent if and only if they are or- thogonal. By Uhlhorn’s version of Wigner’s theorem [23], every bijective transfor- mation of G1(H) preserving the orthogonality relation in both directions is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator. The main result of [19] states that the same holds for every bijective transformation of Gk(H) preserving the ortho-adjacency relation in both directions if dimH 6= 2k; in the case when dimH = 2k ≥ 6, every such transformation is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator or it is the composition of the orthocomplementary map and a transformation induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator. If dimH = 2k = 4, then the latter statement fails and a descriptions of ortho-adjacency preserving transformations is an open problem, see [11, 19] for the details.