MARK PANKOV, ADAM TYC

$$
f(M)=g(M^{\perp}\cap X)^{\perp}\cap X^{\prime}=(U_{X}(M^{\perp}\cap X))^{\perp}\cap X^{\prime}=U_{X}(M)
$$

for every M ∈ G1(X).

Lemma 5. If Z ∈ C−1 is contained in X ∈ C+1, then

$$
f({\mathcal{S}}(Z))={\mathcal{S}}(U_{X}(Z)).
$$

Proof. We take distinct M,N belonging to S(Z) ∩ G1(X). Then Z =M ∩N and

$$
f(\mathcal{S}(Z))=\mathcal{S}(Z^{\prime}),
$$

′ where Z = f(M) ∩ f(N). By Lemma 4,

$$
U_{X}(Z)=U_{X}(M)\cap U_{X}(N)=f(M)\cap f(N)=Z^{\prime}
$$

which gives the claim.

Lemma 6. If X,Y ∈ C+1, then

$$
U_{X}(P)=U_{Y}(P)
$$

for every 1-dimensional subspace P ⊂ X ∩ Y .

Proof. Since C+1 is a connected component of G∞(H), there is a sequence

$$
X=X_{0},X_{1},\ldots,X_{m}=Y
$$

of elements of C+1, where Xi−1, Xi are adjacent for every i ∈ {1, . . . ,m}; further- more, we can construct this sequence such that each Xi contains X ∩ Y . For this reason, it is sufficient to consider the case when X,Y are adjacent.

If X and Y are adjacent, thenM = X∩Y belongs to C. Let P be a 1-dimensional subspace of M . Then Z = P⊥ ∩M belongs to C−1. Since Z is contained in both X,Y , we have

(1)

$$
U_{X}(Z)=U_{Y}(Z)
$$

by Lemma 5. Then

$$
U_{X}(P)\oplus U_{X}(Z)=U_{X}(M)=f(M)=U_{Y}(M)=U_{Y}(P)\oplus U_{Y}(Z)
$$

and (1) implies that UX(P ) = UY (P ).

Consider the transformation h of G1(H) defined as follows: for a 1-dimensional subspace P ⊂ H we take any X ∈ C+1 containing P and set h(P ) = UX(P ). By Lemma 6, h is well-defined. Since for any two 1-dimensional subspaces of H there is an element of C+1 containing them, h is a bijection preserving the orthogonality relation in both directions. Then h is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator U on H (Uhlhorn’s theorem). The restriction of U to every X ∈ C+ is a scalar multiple of UX . This implies that f |C is induced by U . CHOW’S THEOREM FOR HILBERT GRASSMANNIANS AS A WIGNER-TYPE THEOREM 9