5. Final remarks

By [17, Theorem 3.17], every automorphism of the poset (G∞(H),⊂) is induced by an invertible bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator. We explain why the same statement is not proved for the restrictions of adjacency preserving transfor- mations on connected components of G∞(H).

Let f be a bijective transformation of G∞(H) preserving the adjacency relation in both directions and let C be a connected component of G∞(H). Without loss of generality, we can assume that f(C) = C. Denote by C± the set of all X ∈ G∞(H) such that X is a subspace of finite codimension in a certain element of C or X contains a certain element of C as a subspace of finite codimension. Then f can be uniquely extended to an automorphism of the poset (C±,⊂) [17, Theorem 2.19]. This extension is denoted by the same symbol f .

Suppose that f(X) = X for a certain X ∈ C and consider the lattice of finite- dimensional subspaces of X . The map sending every finite-dimensional subspace M ⊂ X to f(M⊥ ∩ X)⊥ ∩ X is a lattice automorphism. By the Fundamental Theorem of Projective Geometry, it is induced by a semilinear bijection A : X → X , i.e. A is additive and there is an automorphism σ of the field of complex numbers such that A(ax) = σ(a)A(x) for every x ∈ X and a ∈ C. It must be pointed out that A is not necessarily bounded; furthermore, the automorphism σ is not necessarily the identity or the conjugate map. Then

$$
f(Y)=(A(Y^{\perp}\cap X))^{\perp}\cap X
$$

for every Y ∈ C± contained in X .

If A is an invertible bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator, then the re- −1)∗ striction of f to the set of all Y ∈ C± contained in X is induced by (A [17, Proposition 3.7].

Conversely, if this restriction is induced by a semilinear bijection B : X → X , then B sends closed hyperplanes of X to closed hyperplanes which guarantees that B is a bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator (see [12] or [17, Lemma 3.12]). By [17, Proposition 3.7], A is a scalar multiple of (B−1)∗ which is impossible if A is unbounded.

So, the restriction cannot be induced by a semilinear bijection if A is unbounded. To assert that A is bounded we need to extend f on G∞(X). Only in this case, we can apply arguments used to prove [17, Theorem 3.17].

References

[1] G. Chevalier, Wigner’s theorem and its generalizations, Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures, 429–475, Elsevier, 2007.

[2] W.L. Chow, On the geometry of algebraic homogeneous spaces, Ann. of Math. 50(1949), 32–67.

[3] J. Dieudonné, La géométrie des groupes classiques (2nd edition), Springer, 1963.

[4] G.P. Gehér, P. Šemrl, Isometries of Grassmann spaces, J. Funct. Anal. 270 (2016), 1585– 1601.

[5] G.P. Gehér, Wigner’s theorem on Grassmann spaces, J. Funct. Anal. 273(2017), 2994–3001.

[6] G.P. Gehér, Symmetries of projective spaces and spheres. Int. Math. Res. Not. IMRN 2020, no. 7, 2205–2240.

[7] G.P. Gehér, M. Mori, The structure of maps on the space of all quantum pure states that preserve a fixed quantum angle, Int. Math. Res. Not. 2022, no. 16, 12003–12029.

[8] G.P. Gehér, Wigner-type theorems for Hilbert Grassmannians by Mark Pankov (book re- view), Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 59(2022), 289–292. [9] A.M. Gleason, Measures on the closed subspaces of a Hilbert space, Indiana Univ. Math. J. 6(1957), 885–893.