MARK PANKOV, ADAM TYC

′, ′ Y with S and S′ Figure 1. The intersections of X

$$
M=(X+Y)\cap(X\cap Y)^{\perp}
$$

′ ′ ′ and, consequently, to X = X ∩ M . So, X is compatible to Z and M (X is ′ contained in M) which means that X is compatible to S = Z ∩M . For the same ′ ′ reason, X is compatible to S′ and Y is compatible to both S, S′.

′ ′ To complete our proof we need to show that X and Y are orthogonal. ′. Recall that P = S ∩ S′ is a 1-dimensional subspace of X Let Q be the unique ′ ′ 1-dimensional subspace of X orthogonal to P . Since X is compatible to S and S′, we obtain that Q is orthogonal to S and S′. Therefore, Q is orthogonal to S + S′ ′ ′. and, consequently, to Y = P1 + P2 ⊂ S + S ′.

Show that P is orthogonal to Y Let Qi, i = 1, 2 be the 1-dimensional subspace ′ of Y orthogonal to Pi. Then Q1 6= Q2, since P1 6= P2. Furthermore, Q1 is ′ orthogonal to S (since S and Y are compatible) and, similarly, Q2 is orthogonal to ′ ′ S′. This means that Q1, Q2 both are orthogonal to P = S ∩ S and Y = Q1 +Q2 is orthogonal to P .

′ ′. So, X = P +Q is orthogonal to Y This implies that X and Y are compatible.

Lemma 3. For distinct X,Y ∈ G∞(H) the following conditions are equivalent:

(1) X,Y are adjacent (not necessarily ortho-adjacent);

(2) there are infinitely many Z ∈ G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to both X,Y such that ′ ∈ G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to X,Y, Z.

there are infinitely many Z

Proof. (1) ⇒ (2). Since (X + Y )⊥ is infinite-dimensional, for every 1-dimensional P ⊂ (X + Y )⊥ there are infinitely many 1-dimensional subspaces Q ⊂ (X + Y )⊥ orthogonal to P . For any such P and Q the ortho-adjacent subspaces

$$
P+(X\cap Y),Q+(X\cap Y)
$$

are ortho-adjacent to each of X,Y . (2) ⇒ (1). Suppose that X,Y are not adjacent. Then X ∩ Y is of codimension 2 in both X,Y . Since there is a pair of ortho-adjacent elements of G∞(H) which are ortho-adjacent to both X,Y , Lemma 2 implies that X and Y are compatible. Then, by Lemma 1, for every Z ∈ G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to both X,Y there are precisely two elements of G∞(H) ortho-adjacent to X,Y, Z which contradicts our assumption. Therefore, X,Y are adjacent.