MARK PANKOV, ADAM TYC

In [13, 15], the non-bijective version of Wigner’s theorem is extended on the Grassmannian of k-dimensional subspaces of H as follows: every (not necessarily bijective) transformation preserving the principal angles between subspaces is in- duced by a linear or conjugate-linear isometry if dimH 6= 2k; in the case when dimH = 2k, such a transformation can be also the composition of the orthocom- plementary map and a transformation induced by a linear conjugate-linear isome- try. Also, there is an extension of Uhlhorn’s version. By [10, 21], every bijective transformation of the Grassmannian preserving the orthogonality relation in both directions is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator if dimH > 2k (the or- thogonality relation is not defined if dimH < 2k, for the case when dimH = 2k the statement fails); as above, the bijectivity assumption cannot be dropped if H is infinite-dimensional. Various examples of Wigner-type theorems for Hilbert Grassmannians can be found in [8, 14, 17].

In [19], the adjacency relation on Hilbert Grassmannians of finite-dimensional subspaces is replaced by the ortho-adjacency which provides a Chow-type theorem characterizing unitary and anti-unitary operators. Closed subspaces of a Hilbert space are called ortho-adjacent if they are adjacent and compatible. The com- patibility of subspaces is equivalent to the commutativity of the corresponding projections. Note that the ortho-adjacency relation for anisotropic subspaces of sesquilinear forms is considered in [11, 20].

Now, we assume that the Hilbert space H is infinite-dimensional and consider the Grassmannian G∞(H) formed by closed subspaces of H whose dimension and codimension both are infinite. The Grassmannian is partially ordered by the in- clusion relation and every automorphism of this poset is induced by an invertible bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator [17, Theorem 3.17]. This is closely related to [21, Theorem 1.2] which states that every bijective transformation of G∞(H) preserving the orthogonality in both directions is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator. The orthocomplementary transformation of G∞(H) is ad- jacency and ortho-adjacency preserving; however, it reverses inclusions and does not preserve the orthogonality. Furthermore, there are bijective transformations of G∞(H) preserving the adjacency and ortho-adjacency in both directions and non- obtainable by unitary or anti-unitary operators and the possible composition with the orthocomplementary map. This is due to the existence of elements of G∞(H) whose intersection is of infinite codimension in each of them; such elements can- not be connected by a finite sequence, where consecutive elements are adjacent or ortho-adjacent.

In the present paper, we show that every bijective transformation of G∞(H) preserving the ortho-adjacency in both directions locally is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator with the possible composition with the orthocomplementary CHOW’S THEOREM FOR HILBERT GRASSMANNIANS AS A WIGNER-TYPE THEOREM 3