CHOW’S THEOREM FOR HILBERT GRASSMANNIANS AS A WIGNER-TYPE THEOREM 7

4. Proof of Theorem 1

Let f be a bijective transformation of G∞(H) preserving the ortho-adjacency in both directions. Lemma 3 shows that f also is adjacency preserving in both directions. Then f preservers the family of subsets maximal with respect to the property that any two distinct elements are adjacent. By [17, Proposition 2.14], every such subset is of one of the following types:

• the star S(X), X ∈ G∞(H) which consists of all closed subspaces of H containing X as a hyperplane; • the top G1(X), X ∈ G∞(H).

Let C be a connected component of G∞(H). Denote by C+1 and C−1 the sets of all X ∈ G∞(H) such that X contains a certain element of C as a hyperplane or X is a hyperplane in a certain element of C, respectively. Then X ∈ G∞(H) belongs to 1(X) C+1 if and only if the top G is contained in C; similarly, X belongs to C−1 if and only if the star S(X) is contained in C. Note that C+1 and C−1 are connected components of G∞(H). By [17, Theorem 2.19], one of the following possibilities is realized:

(1) f sends every top G1(X), X ∈ C+1 to a top and every star S(Y ), Y ∈ C−1 to a star;

(2) f transfers all tops G1(X), X ∈ C+1 to stars and all stars S(Y ), Y ∈ C−1 to tops.

In the case (2), the composition of the orthocomplementary map and f |C sends tops to tops and stars to stars. Therefore, it is sufficient to show that f |C is induced by a unitary or anti-unitary operator in the case (1).

Consider the case (1).

1(X)) ′), = G1(X Let X ∈ C+1. If f(G then there is a unitary or anti- Lemma 4. ′ unitary operator UX : X → X such that

$$
f(M)=U_{X}(M)
$$

for every M ∈ G1(X). ′) Proof. Consider the bijective map g : G1(X)→ G1(X defined as follows:

$$
g(P)=f(P^{\bot}\cap X)^{\bot}\cap X^{\prime}
$$

for every 1-dimensional subspace P ⊂ X . Observe that 1-dimensional subspaces P,Q ⊂ X are orthogonal if and only if

$$
P^{\bot}\cap X,Q^{\bot}\cap X\in{\mathcal{G}}^{1}(X)
$$

′. are ortho-adjacent; the same holds for 1-dimensional subspaces of X This implies that g is orthogonality preserving in both directions, since f is ortho-adjacency preserving in both directions. By Uhlhorn’s theorem, g is induced by a unitary or ′. anti-unitary operator UX : X → X Then