$$
N_{e}=\frac{1}{3}\,\ln\!\left(\frac{v(t_{f})}{v_{i}}\right)\approx\frac{t_{f}}{v_{i}^{1/3}}.
$$

(7)

In the next subsection we report the mechanism to realize the EU scenario.

B. The Emergent Potential

A simple way to create a past-infinite exponential ex- pansion and end it at a finite time tf is to use a scalar field. Therefore we can add the scalar field term to the Hamiltonian (1):

$$
\mathcal{H}(v,p_{v},\phi,p_{\phi})=\mathcal{H}_{g}(v,p_{v})+\rho_{\phi}(v,\phi,p_{\phi})\,v=0,
$$

(8)

$$
\rho_{\phi}(v,\phi,p_{\phi})=\frac{p_{\phi}^{2}}{2v^{2}}+U(\phi),
$$

(9)

where U(φ) is a potential and pφ = φ̇ v is the momen- tum conjugate to the scalar field. From the equations of motion we find that the scalar field obeys a Klein- Gordon-like equation:

$$
{\ddot{\phi}}+{\frac{\dot{v}}{v}}\,{\dot{\phi}}+{\frac{\partial U}{\partial\phi}}=0.
$$

(10)

The ideal potential for an EU model has a plateau (i.e. an asymptote) at φ → −∞ and a well with an absolute minimum at φ = φf ; it takes the form ]2

$$
U(\phi)=U_{f}+(U_{i}-U_{f})\left[\exp(\frac{\phi-\phi_{f}}{\mathcal{E}})-1\right]^{2},
$$

, (11)

where Ui is the asymptotic value in the infinite past, Uf is the minimum value and E is a constant energy scale parametrizing the width of the well. The form of the potential is shown in Figure 2 for generic values of the parameters.

For t → −∞ we have φ → −∞ and the field is in the plateau of the potential; this implies φ̇2 U and therefore the energy density ρφ ≈ Ui is nearly constant, playing the role of the Cosmological Constant ρΛ of the previous subsection. When we approach t = tf the field falls into the well until it reaches the minimum Uf  Ui, and the exponential expansion ends. (Note that it is pos- sible to set Uf 6= 0 to represent the late-time cosmological constant [16], but this is beyond the scope of this study.) As mentioned before, the infinite time of inflation pro- duces a finite amount of expansion; provided that vi and tf are respectively chosen small and large enough, a very large amount of e−folds can be produced as follows from eq (7), thus solving all the paradoxes of Friedmann evo- lution in a similar manner to the standard inflationary theory [1]. However, analogously to the latter, this model is also subject to some form of fine-tuning and criticisms.

Figure 2. The potential U(φ) − Uf as function of φ − φf for Ui − Uf = 1, E = 1. The asymptote is highlighted with a red dashed line.

C. Fine-Tuning

As mentioned above, some fine-tuning is needed in the EU to reproduce observational parameters, such as den- sity perturbations of the order O 10−5 and a late-time Cosmological Constant ΩΛ ≈ 0.7; however, all inflation- ary universe models need some amount of fine-tuning. The specific geometrical fine-tuning problem in the EU models is the requirement of a particular choice of the initial volume vi and of the primordial cosmological con- stant ρΛ or Ui. This choice must then be supplemented by a further fine-tuning: a choice of initial kinetic energy such that the inequality φ̇2  Ui holds. Both conditions are required to attain an asymptotically Einstein-static state.

The authors of [16, 17] acknowledge the necessity of fine-tuning in this model, but claim that the situation is not too different from any other inflationary model. Besides, they argue that the advantages of having a non-singular, highly symmetric initial state overcome the troubles of fine-tuning. However, the scope of this work is to provide a mechanism to generate an EU model with the minimum fine tuning necessary.

III. EMERGENT UNIVERSE FROM A

MODIFIED ALGEBRA

In this section we present a modified Heisenberg al- gebra, that in the classical limit translates to modified Poisson brackets, which is able to yield an EU-like solu- tion without the need of much fine-tuning.

The modified algebra, inspired by quantum gravity and quantum cosmological theories such as PQM [13, 25] and the Generalised Uncertainty Principle (GUP) represen- tation [22, 26–28], takes the form

$$
\left[{\hat{q}},{\hat{p}}\right]=i\,\left(1-\mu^{2}{\hat{p}}^{2}\right),
$$

(12)