where q̂ and p̂ are operators corresponding to two generic conjugate variables and µ > 0 is a free real parameter that is reminiscent of the lattice spacing in PQM but here takes the role of just a deformation parameter similarly to the GUP representation.

We will see how this algebra, when implemented on the cosmological minisuperspace at a (semi)classical level, will lead to an avoidance of the Big Bang singularity (similarly to Polymer Cosmology [14, 24]) with the in- troduction of an asymptotic minimum, as already men- tioned in [22].

A. A Simple Example

In the classical limit, the commutator (12) becomes a rule for Poisson brackets. In this first example, we will not consider curvature and will not assume any spe- cific kind of matter but leave a generic energy density ρ(v) = ρ v−(1+w).

The Hamiltonian constraint is the same as (1), but with no curvature and modified Poisson brackets:

$$
\mathcal{H}_{g}(v,p_{v})=-\frac{3}{4}\,v\,p_{v}^{2}+\rho(v)\,v=0,
$$

(13)

$$
\{v,p_{v}\}=1-\mu^{2}p_{v}^{2},
$$

(14)

Then from the equations of motion and the constraint we derive a modified Friedmann equation: )2

$$
H^{2}=\frac{\rho}{3}\left(1-\frac{\rho}{\rho_{\mu}}\right)^{2},\quad\rho_{\mu}=\frac{3}{4\mu^{2}},
$$

(15)

Figure 3. The asymptotic solution v(t) for the simple model with a generic energy density (black continuous line), com- pared with the standard evolution (red dashed line) which falls into the singularity. The asymptotic volume vi is high- lighted with the grey faded line.

volume; it naturally follows from the form of the correc- ρρµ tion factor (1− in the modified Friedmann equation (15). We obtain a non-singular, asymptotically Einstein- static model that in the future yields the standard Fried- mann evolution; indeed, note that for v  vi we have ρ(v) ρµ, and the modified Friedmann equation reduces to the standard one H2 = ρ/3.

In the following subsection we will implement this scheme on the full model with curvature and a Cosmo- logical Constant coming from a slow-rolling phase of a scalar field as in the previous Section II.

where ρµ is a critical energy density that is constant [24] and introduces a critical point on the dynamics; the crit- ical point is calculated as the value vi such that v̇ = 0, which, as long as w 6= −1, implies

$$
1-\frac{\rho(v_{i})}{\rho_{\mu}}=0,\ \ \ v_{i}=\left(\frac{\overline{{\rho}}}{\rho_{\mu}}\right)^{\frac{1}{1+w}}.
$$

(16)

The solution v(t) then has the following implicit form:(

$$
\left(\frac{v(t)}{v_{i}}\right)^{\frac{1+w}{2}}-\mathrm{arctanh}\left(\left(\frac{v(t)}{v_{i}}\right)^{\frac{1+w}{2}}\right)=\pm3\,t\,\sqrt{\rho_{\mu}}\,;
$$

= ±3 t√ρµ ; (17)

again we have two solutions, a contracting and an ex- panding one depending on the sign. The solution of in- terest (the expanding one with the + sign) is shown in Figure 3 for generic values of the parameters. Of course this does not present an exponential behaviour, since at this stage we did not include a Cosmological Constant; however this is just a simplified model to show the ability of the modified algebra (12) to naturally implement an asymptotic minimum value.

The main result of this simple construction is that we did not have to impose any fine-tuning such as the con- straint (4) in order to obtain a positive minimum for the

B. The Full Model

We will now consider the full model. We will con- sider different phases: the first, near the classical singu- larity, where the matter-energy is dominated by a rela- tivistic component; the second where a scalar field po- tential grows, yielding an inflationary phase dominated by a Cosmological Constant; a final one where the scalar field has again decayed into photons and the late-time evolution becomes Friedmann-like. In all phases we will consider positive curvature, even though in the modi- fied algebra scheme it is not needed to obtain an asymp- totic behaviour, in order to make the comparison with the standard EU model more immediate.

The full Hamiltonian of the model is

$$
{\cal H}(v,p_{v},\phi,p_{\phi})=-\frac{3}{4}\,v\,p_{v}^{2}-3\,K\,v^{\frac{1}{3}}+\rho\,v=0,
$$

+ ρ v = 0, (18)

$$
\mathrm{phase~1)}\quad\rho=\rho_{\gamma}=\overline{{\rho_{\gamma}^{\mathrm{pre}}}}\varepsilon^{-4},
$$

(19)

$$
\mathrm{phase~2})\quad\rho=\rho_{\phi}(U\gg\dot{\phi}^{2})=U_{i}=\rho_{\Lambda},
$$

phase 2) ρ = ρφ(U  φ̇2) = Ui = ρΛ, (20)

$$
\begin{array}{rl}{\mathrm{phase~3}}&{\rho=\rho_{\gamma}=\overline{{\rho_{\gamma}^{\mathrm{post}}}}~v^{-\frac{4}{3}},}\end{array}
$$

, pre/post where the constants ρ and ρΛ have been chosen γ to maintain continuity for v and v̇.

(21)