parameterizes the scalar perturbations [23], as a small perturbation and we determine the corrections it induces on the standard states (associated to a time-dependent harmonic oscillator). As a result, we are able to deter- mine the Spectrum corrections due to the new physics at the ground of our study, and we show under which constraints on the model parameters and initial condi- tions the modification is a reliably small and potentially observable feature.

We conclude by stressing that the present analysis of- fers an interesting new perspective on the origin of a non-singular isotropic Universe, whose underlying cut- off physics can leave a precise fingerprint on the profile of the microwave background temperature distribution.

The manuscript is organized as follows. In Section II we present the standard EU in its Hamiltonian formu- lation. In Section III we introduce the modified algebra and use it to derive a non-fine-tuned EU model; then, in Section IV we derive the modified Power Spectrum of perturbations using the same modified algebra imple- mented on the Mukhanov-Sasaki variable. In Section V we conclude the paper with a brief summary and outlook.

We use the natural units c = } = 8πG = 1.

II. HAMILTONIAN FORMULATION OF THE

EMERGENT UNIVERSE MODEL

Here we compactly present the standard Emergent Universe model [16, 17] starting from the Hamiltonian formulation of the FLRW homogeneous and isotropic model. We derive a non-singular, ever-expanding solu- tion and then show the potential used to end the infla- tionary expansion.

Figure 1. Evolution of the volume v(τ) in the standard EU model. The time variables are rescaled by the time ts of the t beginning of standard inflation: τ = . The minimum value ts is highlighted with a red dashed line.

and a Cosmological Constant ρΛ = ρΛ corresponding to wΛ = −1.

From the equations of motion and the Hamiltonian constraint we obtain the Friedmann equation )2

$$
H^{2}=\left(\frac{\dot{v}}{3v}\right)^{2}=\frac{\rho_{\gamma}+\rho_{\Lambda}}{3}-\frac{K}{v^{2/3}}.
$$

(3)

By requiring the existence of a unique positive minimum vi for the volume, we obtain the following constraint on the free parameters of the densities: ) 3

$$
v_{i}=\left(\frac{3}{2}\,\frac{K}{\rho_{\Lambda}}\right)^{\frac{3}{2}},\quad4\,\overline{{\rho_{\gamma}}}\,\rho_{\Lambda}=9\,K^{2},
$$

(4)

A. The Standard Emergent Universe Scenario

The configurational variables that we will use for the gravitational sector are the volume v = a3, where a = a(t) is the cosmic scale factor, and its conjugate mo- mentum pv ∝ v̇/v; they have been shown to be the suit- able variables to yield an universal critical energy density in Polymer Cosmology [24].

The Hamiltonian for a FLRW model with curvature filled with matter in the form of perfect fluids is so that the Friedmann equation can be rewritten in terms of the minimum volume and easily solved: √ ) 1

$$
\dot{v}=\pm3\,\sqrt{\frac{K}{2}}\,\,\left(\frac{v}{v_{i}}\right)^{\frac{1}{3}}\,\left(v^{\frac{2}{3}}-v_{i}^{\frac{3}{2}}\right),
$$

(5)

)] 3

$$
v(t)=v_{i}\left[1+\exp\!\left(\pm\frac{\sqrt{2K}}{v_{i}^{1/3}}\;t\right)\right]^{\frac{3}{2}}.
$$

(6)

$$
\mathcal{H}_{g}(v,p_{v})=-\frac{3}{4}\,v\,p_{v}^{2}-3\,K\,v^{\frac{1}{3}}+\rho(v)\,v=0,
$$

+ ρ(v) v = 0, (1) ∑ where K = +1 parametrizes the spatial curvature and ρ(v) = ρi(v) contains all the necessary components, i each obeying the following continuity equation that yields the following expression:

$$
\dot{\rho_{i}}+\frac{\dot{v}}{v}\,\rho_{i}\left(1+w_{i}\right)=0,\quad\rho_{i}(v)=\overline{{\rho}}_{i}\,v^{-(1+w_{i})},
$$

(2)

with wi being the equation of state parameter; a sim- 1 ple EU model contains a radiation fluid ργ with wγ = We have two solutions, one expending to infinity and one contracting from infinity, depending on the sign of the exponential; of course we are interested in the ex- panding one with the + sign. The solution is shown in Figure 1: as expected it is asymptotically Einstein static, since v(t→ −∞)→ vi > 0, and exponentially ex- panding. Note that in the picture we rescaled the time variable as τ = t/ts, where ts ≈ 10−36s is the start of inflation in the standard cosmological model; this will be useful in later sections.

Even though inflation occurs for an infinite time in the past, at any given time tf  v1/3i there is a finite amount of e−folds given by