BEZOUT FOR MIXED VOLUMES

Let λt = V1(t)/V0, and µt = Vn−1(t)/Vn(t) (which are both well-defined and positive, as long as t > t0). Then, using Brunn-Minkowski’s inequality :

$$
(V_{1}-V_{0})\sum_{r=0}^{n-1}\lambda_{t}^{r}=\frac{V_{1}^{n}-V_{0}^{n}}{V_{0}^{n-1}}\geq\frac{V_{n}V_{0}^{n-1}-V_{0}^{n}}{V_{0}^{n-1}}=V_{n}-V_{0}.
$$

(BM1)

And symmetrically :

$$
(V_{n-1}-V_{n})\sum_{r=0}^{n-1}\mu_{t}^{r}=\frac{V_{n-1}^{n}-V_{n}^{n}}{V_{n}^{n-1}}\geq\frac{V_{0}V_{n}^{n-1}-V_{n}^{n}}{V_{n}^{n-1}}=V_{0}-V_{n}.
$$

(BM2)

∑n−1 Therefore (combining the above two) ∑n−1

$$
V_{1}-V_{0}\geq\alpha_{t}(V_{n}-V_{n-1})\quad\mathrm{where}\ \alpha_{t}=\frac{\sum_{r=0}^{n-1}\mu_{t}^{r}}{\sum_{r=0}^{n-1}\lambda_{t}^{r}}.
$$

Since Wt → K as t→ 0 (for the Hausdorff distance), continuity of Vn(.) implies that Vk(t)→ V0 (for

all k ≤ n), while (weak) continuity of (L 7→ SL) implies that SWt → SK (for the weak topology on ∫

Radon measures on the sphere). Therefore αt → 1, while

$$
\begin{array}{l}{\displaystyle\frac{V_{n}-V_{n-1}}{t}=\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}\frac{(h_{W_{t}}-h_{K})(u)}{t}dS_{W_{t}}(u)}\\ {\displaystyle=\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{W_{t}}(u)\to\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u)}\end{array}
$$

∫ where we used that hWt(u) = hK(u) + tf(u) for SWt-a.e. u ∈ Ω. Hence,

$$
\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\frac{V_{1}-V_{0}}{t}\geq\left(\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\alpha_{t}\right)\left(\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\frac{V_{n}-V_{n-1}}{t}\right)=\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u).
$$

∫ V1−V0 ∫ ≥ Similarly, for all t0 < t < 0 : f(u)dSK(u), while combining BM1 and BM2 yields

Ω

$$
\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\frac{V_{1}-V_{0}}{t}\leq\left(\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{-}}\alpha_{t}\right)\left(\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{-}}\frac{V_{n}-V_{n-1}}{t}\right)=\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u).
$$

We recall the statement of the (almost-sure) pointwise convergence Lemma 2 (which we used in the proof of Proposition 1), and provide a simple proof here.

Lemma 4. Let (Wt)t be Wulff-shape perturbations of a given convex body K, with respect to (Ω, f). ∣∣∣∣

Then for SK-almost every u ∈ Sn−1:

$$
{\frac{\mathrm{d}h_{W_{t}}(u)}{\mathrm{d}t}}\bigg|_{t=0}=\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0}{\frac{h_{W_{t}}(u)-h_{K}(u)}{t}}=f(u).
$$

(6)

∈ Sn−1, Proof. First, recall that, for all u t0 = t0(K,Ω, f) = inf{t ∈ R : |Wt|n > 0}. the map (t 7→ hWt(u)) is concave on ]t0,+∞[, where

Indeed, Let t0 < t1 < t2, and let λ ∈ (0, 1). Let x ∈ (1 − λ)Wt1 + λWt2 , and let u ∈ Ω. Let xi ∈Wti , i = 1, 2, such that x = (1− λ)x1 + λx2. Denote tλ := (1− λ)t1 + λt2. Then

$$
= (1-\lambda)\langle x$_{1}$, u\rangle +\lambda\langle x$_{2}$, u\rangle\leq(1-\lambda)h_{W_{t_{1}}}(u)+\lambda h_{W_{t_{2}}}(u)\leq h_{K}(u)+t_{\lambda}f(u).
$$

As this holds for any u ∈ Ω, one concludes that (1− λ)Wt1 + λWt2 ⊂ Wtλ , from which concavity (on the domain ]t0,+∞[) of (t 7→ hWt(u)) ,for any fixed u ∈ Sn−1, readily follows.

In particular, for any u ∈ Sn−1, the map (t 7→ hWt(u)) is concave on a neighborhood of t = 0, (hWt−hK)(u) (hWt−hK)(u) n−1. implying that limt→0+ and limt→0− , exist for any u ∈ S We now explain how to deduce that right and left derivative (at t = 0) coincide, for SK-a.e. u ∈ Sn−1, from lemma 1. (hWt−hK)(u) We next prove that limt→0+