A NEW EXCLUDING CONDITION TOWARDS THE SOPRUNOV-ZVAVITCH

CONJECTURE ON BEZOUT-TYPE INEQUALITIES

MAUD SZUSTERMAN

Abstract. In 2015, I. Soprunov and A. Zvavitch have shown how to use the Bernstein-Khovanskii- Kushnirenko theorem to derive non-negativity of a certain bilinear form F∆, defined on (pairs of) convex bodies. Together with C. Saroglou, they proved non-negativity of FK characterizes simplices, among all polytopes. It is conjectured the characterization further holds among all convex bodies. Towards this conjecture, several necessary conditions on K (for non-negativity of FK), were derived. We give a new necessary condition, expressed with isoperimetric ratios, which provides a further step towards a (conjectural) characterization of simplices among a certain subclass of convex bodies.

1. Introduction

|∂K| n n−1 The isoperimetric ratio of a convex body K ⊂ Rn, is usually defined as , or as a power of |K|n−1n

this ratio. Here |K|n denotes the Lebesgue measure of K (its volume), and |∂K|n−1 its surface area (the (n−1)-Hausdorff measure of its topological boundary). A classical result in convex geometry, the isoperimetric inequality, states that Euclidean balls minimize this ratio, and are the only minimizers. On the other side, the isoperimetric ratio can be arbitrarily large. However, note this ratio is not affine invariant. Following K. Ball (see [Ba, Theorem 2]), consider instead the affine invariant quantity:

$$
Iso(K)=\operatorname*{min}_{T\in\mathcal{O}(n)}\frac{|\partial(TK)|_{n-1}^{n}}{|TK|_{n}^{n-1}},
$$

where the minimum runs over the orthogonal group O(n). Then Iso(K) is upper bounded. In fact, denoting by ∆n an n-simplex, Ball has proved :

$$
Iso(K)\leq Iso(\Delta_{n}),
$$

yielding a reverse isoperimetric inequality. Additionally, it was proved in [Ba] that n-simplices are the only maximizers of Iso(K).

Denote Vn(L1, ..., Ln) the mixed volume of n convex bodies, and denote Vn(K) = V (K[n]) the volume of K. Since |∂K|n−1 = nVn(K[n − 1], Bn2 ), where Bn2 denotes the (unit) l2-ball in Rn, Ball’s result can be reformulated within the language of mixed volumes as follows : for any convex body K ⊂ Rn, there exists an ellipsoid E , such that

$$
V_{n}(K[n-1], {\mathcal E})^{n}V_{n}(\Delta_{n})^{n-1}\leq V_{n}(\Delta_{n}[n-1], {\mathcal E})^{n-1}V_{n}(K)^{n-1}.
$$

Another interesting inequality of mixed volumes involving ∆n was derived by I. Soprunov and A. Zvavitch (see [SZ16]), using the Bernstein-Kushnirenko-Khovanskii theorem (see [Ber75], [Kho78], [Ku]), and an inequality from real algebraic geometry called Bezout inequality: ∀L1, L2 ∈ Kn : Vn(L1, L2,∆n[n− 2])Vn(∆n) ≤ Vn(L1,∆n[n− 1])Vn(L2,∆n[n− 1]).

This set of inequalities (called Bezout inequalities in [SZ16]) can be thought of as non-negativity of the bilinear form F∆, defined as

$$
F_{\Delta}(A,B)=V_{n}(A,\Delta_{n}[n-1])V_{n}(B,\Delta_{n}[n-1])-V_{n}(A,B,\Delta_{n}[n-2])V_{n}(\Delta_{n}).
$$

1Keywords: Bezout inequalities, isoperimetric, mixed volumes, simplex.

MSC Classification 2020: Primary 52A20; Secondary 52B60

The author was supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant DMS-1929284 while the author was in residence at the Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics in Providence, RI, during the Harmonic Analysis and Convexity program.

arXiv:2302.01213v2 [math.FA] 4 Feb 2023