MAUD SZUSTERMAN

Theorem 5 (Theorem 4.2 in [SSZ2]). Let K be a convex body with infinitely many facets. Then b2(K) > 1.

Proof. If K has infinitely many facets, then infinitely many of them will satisfy Isop(F ) > Isop(K), so that Theorem 5 follows from Proposition 1.

Let C be a d-dimensional convex body. Then

$$
\mathrm{Isop}(C)=\frac{1}{d}\frac{|\partial C|_{d-1}}{|C|_{d}}=\frac{1}{d}\frac{|\partial C|_{d-1}}{|C|_{d}^{d-1/d}}|C|_{d}^{-1/d}\geq\frac{1}{d}\frac{|\partial B_{2}^{d}|_{d-1}}{|B_{2}^{d}|_{d}^{d-1/d}}|C|_{d}^{-1/d}=\frac{\kappa_{d}^{1/d}}{|C|_{d}^{1/d}},
$$

where we used the isoperimetric inequality, and where κd denotes the volume of the d-dimensional euclidean ball.

It follows that Isop(F ) → +∞ when |F |n−1 → 0. Since a convex body only has finite surface area measure, it follows that if K has infinitely many facets, then all but finitely many of them will satisfy Isop(F ) > Isop(K).

We conclude this section with the following question.

Question 1: Let P be a polytope, other than a simplex. Denote Fn−1(P ) the set of its facets. Do we

Isop(F ) necessarily have maxT∈O(n)maxF∈Fn−1(P > 1?

Isop(P )

In words : (if P is not a simplex) does there always exist an affine transform T such that ′ ′ ′) ′) P = TP has at least one facet F satisfying Isop(F > Isop(P

If the answer is positive, then it would yield another proof of Theorem 1 (by applying Proposition 1).

4. Appendix

4.1. Wulff Shape Lemma. We recall the statement of Alexandrov’s variational lemma for mixed volumes, Lemma 1, and then provide a proof.

Lemma 3 (Alexandrov’s variational lemma, mixed volume version). Assume K is a convex body, supp(SK) ⊂ Ω, and f ∈ C(Ω,R). DenoteWt =W (Ω, hK+tf), t ∈ R. Denote V1(t) = Vn(Wt,K[n−1]). ∣∣∣∣ ∫ Then (t 7→ V1(t)) is differentiable7 at 0, and :

$$
{\frac{\mathrm{d}V_{1}(t)}{\mathrm{d}t}}{\Big|}_{t=0}=\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0}{\frac{V_{1}(t)-V_{n}(K)}{t}}={\frac{1}{n}}\int_{\mathbb{S}^{n-1}}f(u)dS_{K}(u),
$$

⋂ −(u, LetK be a convex body, Ω a closed subset of Sn−1 determining8K, meaningK = hK(u)), u∈ΩH and let f be a continuous function defined on Ω. Recall we denoteWt =W (Ω, hK+tf) the associated Wulff-shape perturbations : Wt is a convex body if t > t0.

∫

Following Alexandrov’s notations (see [Al1]), we denote Vk(t) = Vn(Wt[k],K[n−k]) (in particular

V1(t)−V0(t) + → V0(t) = Vn(K) does not depend on t). We prove f(u)dSK(u) separately for t→ 0

Ω

then for t → 0−. For sake of clarity, we may omit some dependence from the notations : V1 means V1(t), and similarly Vk stands for Vk(t).

∫ ∫ ∫ 1n ≤ Proof. For all t, note that (by definition ofWt) V1−V0 = f(u)dSK(u).

Ω(hWt−hK)(u)dSK(u) Ω V1(t)−V0 ≤ In particular, lim supt→0+ f(u)dSK(u).

Ω

7on both sides 8we are following Schneider’s terminology [Sch] 9(f measurable and bounded on Ω would do as well)