BEZOUT FOR MIXED VOLUMES

b- The octahedron. It has 2n facets, each of them is a regular simplex of volume |F |n−1 = (n−1)! √ √ k+1 Let ∆k denote a regular k-simplex with edge length 2 (so |∆k|k = ). Then, if n ≥ 3 :

$$
\begin{array}{rl}{\lefteqn{\frac{\mathrm{Isop}(F)}{\mathrm{Isop}(O_{n})}}=\frac{n|O_{n}||\partial F|}{(n-1)|\partial O_{n}||F|}=\frac{n}{n-1}\frac{n|\Delta_{n-2}|}{n!|F|^{2}}}\\ &{=\cfrac{n}{n-1}\frac{(n-1)!^{2}}{n!(n-2)!}\sqrt{n-1}=\sqrt{n-1}>1.}\end{array}
$$

c- The cylinders. Let L be an (n− 1)-dimensional convex body. Define C = Conv(L, L′) where L′ = L+ ten is a translate of L parallel to it. Then |C| = t|L|, thus :

$$
\frac{\mathrm{Isop}(L)}{\mathrm{Isop}(C)}=\frac{n|C||\partial L|}{(n-1)|\partial C||L|}=\frac{tn}{n-1}\frac{|\partial L|}{|\partial C|}=\frac{tn}{n-1}\frac{|\partial L|}{(2|L|+t|\partial L|)},
$$

. nn−1(Isop(L)) −1). This ratio is greater than 1 for large t (as soon as t > 2

Letting T be an

appropriate affine transform, i.e. Ten = t0en, and Tei = ei (i ≤ n − 1), where t0 is large

Isop(TL) Isop(L) enough, one deduces that b2(C) = b2(TC) > 1, because > 1.

Isop(TC) Isop(TC)

d- The half-ball. Denote H+ = {xn ≥ 0} a closed half-space, Bn2 the (unit) Euclidean ball, and nκn2 M = H+ ∩ Bn2 a half-ball. Then |M |n = κn/2, |∂M |n−1 = + κn−1, and so Isop(M) = 2κn−1nκn n−1

Isop(F ) 1 + . The unique facet of M is F ≈ B , and so Isop(F ) = 1. Hence < 1.

Isop(M) Isop(TF )Isop(TM) Nonetheless, one can find an affine transform T such that > 1, showing that b2(M) > 1. Indeed, let c > 1 be large enough and let T be the unique affine transform such

that Ten = cen, and Tei = ei for i ≤ n − 1. Then computations show that Isop(TM) = |∂E| |∂E|n|E| 2κn−1 + < + < 1 = Isop(TF ) = Isop(F ), showing b2(M) = b2(TM) < 1. (see n|E| nκnc appendix for computational details)

In the above four examples (unit cube, octahedron On, cylinders, half-balls), we used Proposition 1 (or Proposition 2) to argue that b2(K) > 1. For these examples, the fact that b2(K) > 1 was already known : the cylinder, like the cube, is decomposable, the half-ball has (many) points of positive curvature on its boundary, and it was directly shown in [SZ15] that b2(On) = 2 (by taking well-chosen

Isop(F ) segments). The half-ball example suggests that maxF could be minimal when K is in its John’s

Isop(K) position.

Isop(F ) As a sanity check, one may wish to compute maxF , when ∆ is an n-simplex, to check

Isop(∆) √ √ √ n+1 this quantity is less than 1. If ∆ = Tn is a regular simplex with edge length 2, then |Tn| = √ and |∂Tn| = (n+1)|Tn−1| = (n+1) , so that Isop(Tn) = n(n+ 1). It results that for a regular (n−1)! √ √ n-simplex :

$$
\operatorname*{max}_{F}\frac{\mathrm{Isop}(F)}{\mathrm{Isop}(T_{n})}=\frac{\sqrt{n(n-1)}}{\sqrt{n(n+1)}}=\sqrt{\frac{n-1}{n+1}}.
$$

√ 1n! If ∆n = Conv(0, e1, ..., en), then |∆n| = , and |∂∆n| = + , hence Isop(∆n) = (n−1)! (n−1)! √ √ n+ n. There are two kinds of facets : one is ∆n−1, the other one is Tn−1. Their isoperimetric ratios √ are respectively Isop(Tn−1) = n(n− 1) and Isop(∆n−1) = n− 1+ n− 1 > Isop(Tn−1). Therefore : √

$$
\operatorname*{max}_{F}\frac{\mathrm{Isop}(F)}{\mathrm{Isop}(\Delta_{n})}=\frac{\mathrm{Isop}(\Delta_{n-1})}{\mathrm{Isop}(\Delta_{n})}=\frac{n-1+\sqrt{n-1}}{n+\sqrt{n}}.
$$

Isop(F ) Isop(F )

Isop(F )

Isop(TF ) Note that maxF > maxF . One may conjecture that maxF = minT maxF

Isop(∆n) Isop(Tn)

Isop(Tn)

Isop(T∆n)

i.e. that the (maximal) ratio is minimal when the simplex is in its John’s position.

Finally, we remark that Proposition 2 yields a more concise proof of the following result, which states that having infinitely many facets, is an excluding condition.