MAUD SZUSTERMAN

A similar bilinear form FK can be defined for an arbitrary convex bodyK. Since Vn(TL1, ..., TLn) = |det(T )|Vn(L1, ..., Ln) (for any n-tuple of convex bodies (Li), and any affine transform T ), non- negativity of FK is an affine invariant property. In 2018, Saroglou, Soprunov and Zvavitch obtained a characterization of n-simplices among polytopes :

Theorem 1. Let P ⊂ Rn be an n-polytope. Assume FP ≥ 0. Then P is an n-simplex.

(here FP ≥ 0 means FP (A,B) ≥ 0 for all (A,B) ∈ (Kn)2, where Kn denotes the set of all convex bodies in Rn).

It was conjectured that this characterization further holds among all (n-dimensional) convex bodies, see [SZ16, Conj 1.2], or [SSZ2, Conj 5.1].

Conjecture 1. Let K ⊂ Rn be a convex body. Assume FK ≥ 0. Then K is an n-simplex.

≥ 0 to hold) were derived : Several necessary conditions (for FK K cannot be decomposable, nor weakly decomposable (see [SSZ2, Def 5.3] where this notion was introduced), the surface area measure SK cannot have a regular direction in its support (see [SSZ2, Prop 4.2]), K cannot have infinitely many facets on its boundary. We refer to [SZ16], [SSZ1], [SSZ2] for proofs, and comments on these conditions.

In this work, we provide a new necessary condition, namely:

Theorem 2. Let K be a convex body such that K has a facet F satisfying : Isop(F ) > Isop(K). Then FK ≥ 0 doesn’t hold : there exists a pair of convex bodies (A,B) ∈ (Kn)2 such that FK(A,B) < 0.

It allows in particular to recover the necessity (for non-negativity of FK) of having at most finitely many facets. We leave as an open question whether Theorem 2 allows to recover characterization amongst polytopes, i.e. Theorem 1, see Question 1 below.

Acknowledgements. The author wishes to thank Artem Zvavitch for introducing her to this topic and for feedback on preliminary drafts of the current work. The author also thanks Evgueni Abakumov and Omer Friedland for many discussions and support. Finally, many thanks to Dylan Langharst for pointing to the reverse isoperimetric inequality by Ball, and for many editing suggestions which helped clarifying the presentation.

2. Preliminaries

∑ ≥ A classical result due to Minkowski [Mink] states that, for any m 2, and any m-tuple (K1, ...,Km) of compact convex sets in Rn, the volume of the Minkowski sum λiKi, is a poly- nomial in the λi ≥ 0. More precisely, Minkowski’s theorem asserts there exists coefficients ca ≥ 0, |a| = a1 + ... + am = n), which only indexed by m-tuples a = (a1, ..., am) ∈ Nm summing to n (i.e.

  ∣∣∣∣∣ depend on (K1, ...,Km), and such that, for any λ1, ..., λm ≥ 0:∣∣∣∣∣ ∑ ∑ ∑

$$
\left|\sum_{i=1}^{m}\lambda_{i}K_{i}\right|_{n}=\sum_{a\in\mathbb{N}^{m},|a|=n}\frac{n!}{a_{1}...a_{m}!}\left(\prod_{j=1}^{m}\lambda_{j}^{a_{j}}\right)c_{a}=:\sum_{|a|=n}\binom{n}{a}\lambda^{a}c_{a}.
$$

These coefficients are called mixed volumes, and usually one denotes

$$
V_{n}(K_{1}[a_{1}],...,K_{m}[a_{m}]):=c_{a},
$$

with a = (a1, ..., am), where Ki[ai] means that Ki appears ai times as an argument. ′ It follows directly fromMinkowski’s theorem that, for any compact convex setsK1,K ...,Kn, 1,K2, any x1 ∈ Rn, any λ ≥ 0, and any permutation σ ∈ S(n) : ∑ ∑

1a unit vector u such that Ku is 0-dimensional, where Ku = {y ∈ K : 〈y, u〉 = maxz∈K〈z, u〉}