MAUD SZUSTERMAN

It follows from Lemma 2 that hLt(u0) − hK(u0) > t(1 − ε)f(u0) = t(1 − ε), for 0 < t < t0(ε). Also, |∂F |n−2 σ({u0}) = S(M,K[n− 2], u0) = Vn−1(Mu0 ,Ku0 [n− 2]) = Vn−1(Bn−12 , F [n− 2]) = n−1 Therefore, when 0 < t < t0(ε) :

$$
V_{n}(L_{t},M,K[n-2])-V_{n}(M,K[n-1])\geq(1-\epsilon)\frac{t}{n(n-1)}|\partial F|_{n-2}.
$$

∫ On the other hand, for any t > 0 :

$$
\begin{array}{l}{{\displaystyle V_{n}(L_{t},K[n-1])-V_{n}(K)=\frac{1}{n}\int(h_{L_{t}}-h_{K})(u)dS_{K}(u)}}\\ {{\displaystyle~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\leq\frac{t}{n}\int f(u)dS_{K}(u)<(1+\epsilon)\frac{t}{n}|F|_{n-1}.}}\end{array}
$$

where the last inequality is by the choice of f . Also, by monotonicity of mixed volumes :

$$
V_{n}(M,K[n-1])\leq V_{n}(B_{2}^{n},K[n-1])=\frac1n|\partial K|_{n-1},
$$

We may now conclude by simple computations. For ease of notations, set a2 = Vn(Lt,M,K[n − 2]), a0 = Vn(K), at = Vn(Lt, L[n − 1]) and am = Vn(M,K[n − 1]). We shall show that FK(Lt,M) < 0, which rewrites as (at − a0)am − (a2 − am)a0 < 0.

Denote b1 = (a2 − am)a0 and b2 = (at − a0)am, so that FK(Lt,M) = b2 − b1. The above lower tn(n−1) |∂F |n−2|K|n and b2 ≤ (1 + ε) |∂K|n−1|F |n−1. and upper bounds give us : b1 ≥ (1− ε) n2

It follows that :

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\mit\Sigma_{\mathrm{\scriptscriptstyle K}}(L_{t},M)\leq\epsilon\displaystyle\frac{\mathrm{t}}{n}\left(\displaystyle\frac{|\partial F|_{n-2}|K|_{n}}{n-1}+\displaystyle\frac{|F|_{n-1}|\partial K|_{n-1}}{n}\right)-\displaystyle\frac{\mathrm{t}}{n}\left(\displaystyle\frac{|\partial F|_{n-2}|K|_{n}}{n-1}-\displaystyle\frac{|F|_{n-1}|\partial K|_{n-1}}{n}\right)}\\ &{\qquad\qquad\qquad\leq\displaystyle\frac{t}{n}(\epsilon c-c_{0})<0.}\end{array}
$$

Recall that FK ≥ 0 is an affine-invariant property. On the other hand, the quantity

$$
\operatorname*{sup}_{F}\frac{\mathrm{Isop}(F)}{\mathrm{Isop}(K)}=\operatorname*{sup}_{F}\frac{n|\partial F|_{n-2}|K|_{n}}{(n-1)|F|_{n-1}|\partial K|_{n-1}},
$$

where the supremum is over the facets, is not affine-invariant. Thus, the above proposition immediately implies the following one.

′ ′ Proposition 2. Let K be a convex body such that one of its affine pairs K = TK has a facet F satisfying :

$$
{\frac{|\partial F^{\prime}|_{n-2}}{(n-1)|F^{\prime}|_{n-1}}}={\frac{|\partial K^{\prime}|_{n-1}}{n|K^{\prime}|_{n}}}.
$$

Then b2(K) > 1.

Isop(TF ) ∈ O(n), then b2(K) > 1. This yields that, if maxT supF > 1, where the max is over T

Isop(TK)

Let us list specific examples. Throughout, we will denote | · | for the Lebesgue measure (either of dimension n, n− 1, or n− 2).

a- The unit cube has volume 1, and so does any of its facet. Thus |∂Cn| = 2n, and Isop(Cn) = |∂Cn| = 2. Since each of its facets is a unit cube itself (of dimension n − 1), they also satisfy n|Cn|

Isop(F ) Isop(F ) = 2. Therefore maxF = 1. But choose for T the affine transform such that

Isop(C) ′ Tei = ei for all i 6= 1, and Te1 = 2e1. Let C = TC be the resulting box. |∂F |(n−1)|F ′) 1n Then, = 2 for the facet with outer normal e1, while Isop(C = 2− . It follows that Isop(F ) ′) > 1, and hence b2(C) = b2(C > 1.

Isop(C′) √