BEZOUT FOR MIXED VOLUMES

Denote FK,b(A,B) := bV (A,K[n− 1])V (B,K[n− 1])−V (A,B,K[n− 2])V (K), then b2(K) can be equivalently defined as the least b ≥ 1 such that FK,b ≥ 0. Notice that b2(TK) = b2(K) for every affine transformation T .

Clearly, FK = FK,1. A Blaschke selection argument shows that the supremum is actually a ∈ Kn. In fact6, b2(K) ≤ 2 for any K.

maximum; in particular b2(K) < ∞ for all K

Notice that

b2(K) > 1 is equivalent to not having FK ≥ 0 (i.e. to existence of a pair (A,B) such that FK(A,B) < 0).

3. An excluding condition with isoperimetric ratios

If a property P (for instance, being decomposable) is such that when K has P, then FK cannot be non-negative (on all of (Kn)2), we shall say that P is an excluding condition (in the terminology of [SZ16], a convex body K cannot both satisfy P and satisfy Bezout inequalities). It was shown in [SSZ1, SSZ2] that being weakly decomposable (a property which in particular includes being a polytope other than an n-simplex, or being decomposable) is an excluding condition. Denote KF the KF

subclass of Kn consisting of convex bodies having at least one facet : is closed under Minkowski addition, and contains the class of n-polytopes. In this section we give a new excluding condition, which concerns bodies K ∈ KF . We will work in Rn with n ≥ 3.

Let K ⊂ Rn be a non-empty compact convex set. Recall there exists a unique affine subspace H of Rn, such that K ⊂ H, and H has maximal (affine) co-dimension. The dimension of K is defined as the dimension of this subspace H. Alternatively dim(K) can be defined as the maximal k ≥ 1, such that one may find k + 1 affinely independent points, within K.

Let k ≥ 2 and let K ∈ Kn be k-dimensional. Then denote

$$
\mathrm{Isop}(K)=\frac{1}{k}\frac{|\partial K|_{k-1}}{|K|_{k}},
$$

.

Proposition 1. Let K be a convex body such that K has a facet F satisfying : Isop(F ) > Isop(K). Then b2(K) > 1.

|∂F |n−2(n−1)|F |∂K|n−1 Proof. Assume K has a facet F = Ku0 such that > . Set |n−1 n|K|n

$$
c_{0}:=\frac{|\partial F|_{n-2}|K|_{n}}{n-1}-\frac{|\partial K|_{n-1}|F|_{n-1}}{n}>0,
$$

2n−1 |∂F |n−2|K|n > 2c0. Fix ε > 0 so that c0 > εc. and c = ∫ |F |n−1 |∂K|n−1 Since SK({u0}) = > 0 and SK(Sn−1) = < +∞, one may choose f a non- negative and continuous function on the sphere, such that f(u0) = maxSn−1 f = 1 and f(u)dSK(u) < (1+ ε)SK(u0) = (1+ ε)|F |n−1. Fix such a positive function f , and define Lt =W (hK + tf), the Wulff shape with respect to function hK + tf . One may think of Lt as a perturbed version of K, with most of the perturbation in direction u0.

Set M = H−u0 ∩ B = {x ∈ Bn2 : 〈x, u0〉 ≤ 0} to be a half-euclidean ball, such that its unique facet is the euclidean ball Mu0 = πu⊥0 (M) with u0 as an outer normal vector. We will show that FK(A,B) < 0, for A = Lt, B =M , and t > 0 is small enough, proving that b2(K) > 1.

Assume t ≥ 0. Recall that the mixed surface area measure σ := S(M,K[n − 2], .) is a non- ∫

negative measure, and that, since f ≥ 0, hK(u) ≤ hLt(u), for all u ∈ Sn−1. It follows that :

$$
\begin{array}{l}{{\displaystyle V_{n}(L_{t},M,K[n-2])-V_{n}(M,K[n-1])=\frac{1}{n}\int(h_{L_{t}}-h_{K})(u)d\sigma(u)}}\\ {{\displaystyle \geq\frac{1}{n}(h_{L_{t}}-h_{K})(u_{0})\sigma(\{u_{0}\}).}}\end{array}
$$

6this is known as Fenchel inequality, see [FGM]