MAUD SZUSTERMAN

arbitrary convex body K, by approximation (see [Sch, Theorem 4.1.1, Theorem 4.2.1]). In this case, the integral formula 1 holds by definition for polytopes, and is deduced (in general) from continuity of mixed volumes, and of (L 7→ SL).

⋂

Recall that if Ω is a closed subset of Sn−1, and g is a continuous function on Ω, the Wulff-shape ∈ Rn 〈x, u〉 ≤ with respect to (Ω, g) is the convex body W (Ω, g) = g(u)}. Let SK be u∈Ω{x

the surface area measure of K. More specifically, if K is a convex body, Ω a closed subset of Sn−1, if supp(SK) ⊂ Ω and if f : Ω→ R is a continuous function, then we denote (Wt)t = (W (Ω, hK + tf))t the family of Wulff-shape perturbations of K associated with (Ω, f). Note that there exists t0 = t0(K) < 0 such that Vn(Wt) > 0 for all t > t0.

When Ω = Sn−1, we denoteW (g) =W (Sn−1, g) the correspondingWulff-shapes. See for instance

[SSZ2, Theorem 1.1] where Wulff-shape perturbations (with Ω = Sn−1) were used to derive a charac- terization of n-simplices as the only convex bodies K such that GK ≥ 0, where GK is the multi-linear form on (Kn)n defined by GK(A1, ..., An) = Vn(A1,K[n− 1])Vn(K,A2, ..., An)− Vn(A1, ..., An)Vn(K).

The following theorem is known as Alexandrov’s variational lemma. We refer to [Al1] for a proof, see also [Sch, Lemma 7.4.3]. ⊂ ∈ C(Ω,R). ∈ R, Theorem 3. Assume K is a convex body, supp(SK) Ω, and f

For t denote ∣∣∣∣ ∫ Wt =W (Ω, hK + tf). Then (t 7→ Vn(Wt)) is differentiable at 0, and

$$
\left.{\frac{\mathrm{d}V_{n}(W_{t})}{\mathrm{d}t}}\right|_{t=0}=\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0}{\frac{V_{n}(W_{t})-V_{n}(K)}{t}}=\int_{\mathbb{S}^{n-1}}f(u)dS_{K}(u),
$$

(3)

Minor modifications of the proof of the above theorem, yields a similar statement in terms of (first) mixed volumes, as follows.

Lemma 1 (Alexandrov’s variational lemma for mixed volume). Assume K is a convex body, supp(SK) ⊂ ∈ C(Ω,R).

Ω, and f

Denote Wt = W (Ω, hK + tf), t ∈ R. Denote V1(t) = Vn(Wt,K[n − 1]). Then ∣∣∣∣ ∫ (t 7→ V1(t)) is differentiable5 at 0, and :

$$
\frac{\,\mathrm{d}V_{1}(t)}{\,\mathrm{d}t}\Big|_{t=0}=\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0}\frac{V_{1}(t)-V_{n}(K)}{t}=\frac{1}{n}\int_{\mathbb{S}^{n-1}}f(u)dS_{K}(u),
$$

(4)

|Wt|n Fix K,Ω and f (as above), and let t0 = sup{t < 0 : = 0} < 0. Denote (Wt)t the associated family of Wulff-shape perturbations. One can easily check that for any u ∈ Sn−1, the map (t 7→ hWt(u)) is concave on ]t0,+∞[. In particular, this map is both left and right-differentiable at t = 0. In fact, Lemma 1 allows to draw a more precise conclusion here.

Lemma 2. Let (Wt)t be Wulff-shape perturbations of a given convex body K, with respect to (Ω, f). ∣∣∣∣

Then for SK-almost every u ∈ Sn−1:

$$
{\frac{\mathrm{d}h_{W_{t}}(u)}{\mathrm{d}t}}\bigg|_{t=0}=\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0}{\frac{h_{W_{t}}(u)-h_{K}(u)}{t}}=f(u).
$$

(5)

We leave a proof of this pointwise convergence lemma in appendix, see also [SSZ2, Theorem 4.1] where the statement was derived from Alexandrov’s variational lemma (Theorem 3). We will need Lemma 2 below, for the proof of Proposition 1.

Finally, it will be convenient to introduce the following definition.

Definition 4. For K ∈ Kn, the Bezout constant is given by

$$
b_{2}(K)=\operatorname*{sup}\frac{V_{n}(L_{1},L_{2},K[n-2])V_{n}(K)}{V_{n}(L_{1},K[n-1])V_{n}(L_{2},K[n-1])},
$$

where the supremum is over pairs of convex bodies (L1, L2) ∈ (Kn)2.

4if (Pk) is a sequence of polytopes approximating K, then the sequence of measures (SPk ) is tight with respect to weak topology : define SK as the weak limit of SPk 5on both sides