BEZOUT FOR MIXED VOLUMES

||KJ |n where i- Vn(K1, ...,Kn) = KJ = Ki

J⊂[n](−1)n−|J i∈J

ii- Vn(K1 + x1,K2, ...,Kn) = Vn(K1, ...,Kn) (translation invariance) ′ ′ iii- Vn(K1 + λK ...,Kn) = Vn(K1,K2, ...,Kn) + λVn(K ...,Kn) (multilinearity) 1,K2, 1,K2, iv- Vn(Kσ(1), ...,Kσ(n)) = Vn(K1, ...,Kn) (symmetry in the arguments) v- Vn(.) is continuous on (Kn)n, with respect to Hausdorff topology.

Moreover, Minkowski proved Vn(.) also enjoys the following properties :

vi- Vn(K1, ...,Kn) ≥ 0 (non-negativity) ′1, ′1,K2, vii- if K1 ⊂ K then Vn(K1,K2, ...,Kn) ≤ Vn(K ...,Kn) (monotonicity).

Hence Vn(.) is a (multilinear) functional on (Kn)n. When the underlying dimension (i.e. the total number of arguments Vn(.) takes) is clear, we may drop the subscript n, and write V (.) rather than Vn(.). It follows directly from the definition of mixed volumes, that Vn(K[n]) = |K|n. Therefore we may slightly abuse notation, and write Vn(K), or even V (K), instead of Vn(K[n]), as this shortcut seems common in the literature. To avoid confusion, we only use this shortcut when K is indeed n-dimensional, i.e. when K is a non-degenerate convex body in Rn.

Let u ∈ Sn−1 be a unit vector. Denote πu the orthogonal projection onto u⊥. If u1, ..., uk are k linearly independent unit vectors in Rn, denote πU the orthogonal projection onto (u1, ..., uk)⊥. We will also need the following well-known property of mixed volumes : viii- ix-

$$
V_{n}([0,u],K_{2},...,K_{n})=\frac{1}{n}V_{n-1}(\pi_{u}K_{2},...,\pi_{u}K_{n}),
$$

$$
V_{n}([0,u_{1}],...,[0,u_{k}],K_{k+1},...,K_{n})-\frac{k!V_{k}([0,u_{1}],...,[0,u_{k}])}{n(n-1)...(n-k+1)}V_{n-k}\left(\pi_{U}K_{k+1},...,\pi_{U}K_{n}\right).
$$

(identity (ix) is deduced from (viii) by iteration).

Let K ⊂ Rn be a compact convex set. Its support function hK , is defined on Rn by hK(x) = maxy∈K〈y, x〉, where 〈., .〉 denotes the usual scalar product on Rn. Since hK(λx) = λhK(x) for any ⋂ x ∈ Rn, λ > 0, we shall more often consider hK as a function on Sn−1. Note that hK characterizes K, −(u, −(u, since K = hK(u)), where H b) = {z ∈ Rn : 〈z, u〉 ≤ b}.

uH

If we fix a convex body K ⊂ Rn, then there exists a unique non-negative measure SK on Sn−1, ∫

such that the following holds for any compact convex set L :

$$
V_{n}(L,K[n-1])=\frac{1}{n}\int_{\mathbb{S}^{n-1}}h_{L}(u)dS_{K}(u).
$$

(1)

For instance, when K = P is a polytope, the following integral representation of Vn(L,P [n − 1]) is ∑ known :

$$
V_{n}(L,P[n-1])=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{u\in E(P)}h_{L}(u)|P^{u}|_{n-1}
$$

(2)

where E(P ) = {outer normal vectors of P} and P = P ∩ H(u, hP (u)) = {y ∈ P : 〈y, u〉 = hP (u)} ∑ is the facet whose outer normal vector is u. This means that SP is the discrete measure SP = |P u|n−1δu, where δv denotes the Dirac measure at v ∈ Sn−1.

u∈E(P ) ∑ Though the formula 1 could be taken as a definition3 of the surface area measure SK , one may |P u|n−1δu, alternatively first define SP for polytopes, via SP = and then define SK for an u∈E(P )

∫ ∫ 2with the convention K∅ = ∅ 3the fact that knowing hKdµ for all convex bodies K, is sufficient to characterize µ, i.e. to know fdµ for any continuous function f on the sphere, can be easily derived for instance from Lemma 1