MAUD SZUSTERMAN

)√ n−2 ≤ 1. Then one concludes, that for a > n large enough : using that wψ = (cosψ)

$$
\lambda W_{n-2}<\left(1-{\frac{1}{a{\sqrt{n}}}}\right){\sqrt{\frac{\pi}{2n}}}<\left(1-{\frac{1}{a{\sqrt{n}}}}\right)W_{n-2}
$$

1anWn √ so that Isop(TM) = λ+ < λ+ < 1 = Isop(F ), as desired.

References

[Al1] A. D. Aleksandrov, Zur Theorie der gemischten Volumina von konvexen Körpern III. Die Erweiterung

zweier Lehrsätze Minkowskis über die konvexen Polyeder auf die beliebigen konvexen Körper (Russian. German summary) Mat. Sb., 3(45), 1, (1938), 27–46.

[Al2] A. D. Aleksandrov, A.D. Alexandrov, Selected works. Part I. Selected scientific papers. Translated from the

Russian by P. S. V. Naidu. Edited and with a preface by Yu. G. Reshetnyak and S. S. Kutateladze. Classics of Soviet Mathematics, 4. Gordon and Breach Publishers, Amsterdam, 1996. x+322 pp

[AFO] S. Artstein-Avidan, D. Florentin, Y. Ostrover Remarks about mixed discriminants and volumes, Com- munications in Contemporary Mathematics. 16 (2014), no. 2, 1350031.

[Ba] K. Ball, Volume ratios and a reverse isoperimetric inequality. J. London Math. Soc. (2) 44 (1991), no. 2, 351–359.

[Ber75] D. N. Bernstein, The number of roots of a system of equations, Funct. Anal. and Appl. 9 (2), (1975) 183–185.

[Bo1] J. Bourgain, On high-dimensional maximal functions associated to convex bodies, Amer. J. Math., Vol. 108, No. 6, (1986), 1467–1476.

[Bo2] J. Bourgain, Geometry of Banach spaces and harmonic analysis, Proc. of Internat. Congress of Mathemati- cians (Berkeley 1986), Amer. Math. Soc., (1987), 871–878.

[BLYZ1] K. J. Böröczky, E. Lutwak, D. Yang and G. Zhang, The log-Brunn–Minkowski inequality, Adv. Math. 231 (2012), 1974–1997.

[BLYZ2] K. J. Böröczky, E. Lutwak, D. Yang and G. Zhang, The logarithmic Minkowski problem, J. Amer.

Math. Soc. 26 (2013), 831–852.

[BGL] S. Brazitikos, A. Giannopoulos, D-M. Liakopoulos, Uniform cover inequalities for the volume of coor- dinate sections and projections of convex bodies, Adv. Geom., Vol. 18, No. 3, (2018) 345–354.

[D] V.I, Diskant,, Bounds for the discrepancy between convex bodies in terms of the isoperimetric difference (in

Russian). Sibirskii Mat. Zh. (1972).

[F] W. Fulton, Intersection Theory, 2nd edition, Springer, 1998.

[FGM] M. Fradelizi, A. Giannopoulos, M. Meyer, Some inequalities about mixed volumes, Israel J. Math. 135 (2003), 157–179.

[Ga] R. J. Gardner, The Brunn–Minkowski inequality, Bull. Am. Math. Soc. 39 (2002), 355–405.

[GHP] A. Giannopoulos, M. Hartzoulaki and G. Paouris, On a local version of the Aleksandrov-Fenchel in- equality for the quermassintegrals of a convex body, Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 130 (2002), 2403–2412.

[HLYZ] C. Haberl, E. Lutwak, D. Yang and G. Zhang, The even Orlicz Minkowski problem, Adv. Math. 224 (2010), 2485–2510.

[HuLYZ] Y. Huang, E. Lutwak, D. Yang, and G. Zhang, Geometric measures in the dual Brunn-Minkowski theory

and their associated Minkowski problems, Acta Math. 216 (2016), no. 2, 325–388.

[KaKh] K. Kaveh, A. G. Khovanskii, Algebraic equations and convex bodies, Perspectives in analysis, geometry, and topology, 263–282, Progr. Math., 296, Birkhäuser/Springer, New York, 2012.

[Kho78] A. G. Khovanskii, Newton polyhedra and the genus of complete intersections, Funct. Anal. Appl., 12 (1978), pp. 38–46.

[Khov] A. G. Khovanskii, Newton polyhedron, Hilbert polynomial, and sums of finite sets, Funct. Andal. Appl., 26 (1992), pp. 276–281.

[Kl] B. Klartag, Isotropic constants and Mahler volumes. Adv. Math. 330 (2018), 74–108.

[KM] A. V. Kolesnikov, E. Milman, Local Lp-Brunn-Minkowski inequalities for p < 1, (2017) arXiv:1711.01089

[math.FA]

[Ku] A. G. Kushnirenko, Newton polyhedra and Bezout’s theorem (Russian) Funkcional. Anal. i Prilozhen. 10, no. 3, (1976) 82–83.

[Kus76] A. G. Kushnirenko, Polyedres de Newton et nombres de Milnor., Invent. Math., 32(1):1–31, 1976.

[Las] M. Lassak, Approximation of convex bodies by inscribed simplices of maximum volume. Beitr. Algebra Geom. 52 (2011), no. 2, 389–394.

[Lu] E. Lutwak, The Brunn-Minkowski-Firey theory. I. Mixed volumes and the Minkowski problem, J. Differential

Geom. 38 (1993), no. 1, 131–150.

[Mink] H. Minkowski, Gesammelte Abhandlungen, Zweiter Band. B.G. Teubner, 1911.

[RZ] D. Ryabogin and A. Zvavitch, Analytic methods in convex geometry, IM PAN Lecture Notes, Vol. 2, Warsaw 2014.

[Sa] Saroglou, On the equivalence between two problems of asymmetry on convex bodies, Discrete Comput. Geom. 54 (2015), no. 3, 573–585. [SSZ1] Saroglou, I. Soprunov and A. Zvavitch, Characterization of simplices via the Bezout inequality for mixed