MAUD SZUSTERMAN

= f(u), for SK-almost every u (the proof on the left (hWt−hK)(u) n−1, of 0 is similar). Let ld(u) = limt→0+ , which is well-defined for all u ∈ S by concavity. Note that (by definition of Wt), ld(u) ≤ f(u), for all u. Let Uε = {u ∈ Sn−1 : ld(u) < f(u)− ε}. It is enough to show that SK(Uε) = 0 (for arbitrary ε > 0).

∫ ∫ By Fatou’s lemma,

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\displaystyle\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\int_{U_{\epsilon}}\frac{(h_{W_{t}}-h_{K})(u)}{t}dS_{K}(u)\leq\displaystyle\int_{U_{\epsilon}}\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\frac{(h_{W_{t}}-h_{K})(u)}{t}dS_{K}(u)}\\ &{\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad=\displaystyle\int_{U_{\epsilon}}l_{d}(u)dS_{K}(u)}\\ &{\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\leq\displaystyle\int_{U_{\epsilon}}f(u)dS_{K}(u)-\epsilon S_{K}(U_{\epsilon}).}\end{array}
$$

∫ Therefore :

$$
\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{+}}\frac{V_{1}(t)-V_{0}}{t}\leq\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u)-\frac{\epsilon}{n}S_{K}(U_{\epsilon}).
$$

It follows from lemma 1 that SK(Uε) = 0.

(hWt−hK)(u) n−1, Similarly, let lg(u) = limt→0− , u ∈ S so that lg(u) ≥ f(u) for all u ∈ Ω, and let ′ Vε = {u ∈ Sn−1 : lg(u) > f(u)+ ε}. Fix x0 ∈ int(K), and let K = K − x0. If |t| is small enough, then ′ a translate of (1− C|t|)K is contained in Wt, with C = (maxu |f |)/(minu hK′) > 0.

(hWt−hK)(u) n−1, ≤ ChK′(u) for all u ∈ S In other words, for any t < 0 (with |t| small enough). ∫ ∫ Hence, by dominated convergence,

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\displaystyle\operatorname*{lim}_{t\to0^{-}}\displaystyle\frac{V_{1}-V_{0}}{t}=\displaystyle\frac{1}{n}\int_{V_{\epsilon}}l_{g}(u)dS_{K}(u)+\displaystyle\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega\setminus V_{\epsilon}}l_{g}(u)dS_{K}(u)}\\ &{\qquad\qquad\qquad\geq\displaystyle\frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u)+\displaystyle\frac{\epsilon}{n}S_{K}(V_{\epsilon}).}\end{array}
$$

So that SK(Vε) = 0, by lemma 1. It follows that lg(u) = f(u) for SK-a.e. u ∈ Ω.

4.2. Examples when Proposition 1 applies : computations. We review one of the examples listed after Proposition 2.

Let M be half a Euclidean ball : M = Bn2 ∩H+, with H+ = {x ∈ Rn : xn ≥ 0}. Then

$$
\mathrm{Isop}(M)=\frac{|\partial M|}{n|M|}=\frac{2|\partial M|}{n\kappa_{n}}=\frac{n\kappa_{n}}{n\kappa_{n}}+\frac{2\kappa_{n-1}}{n\kappa_{n}}=1+\frac{1}{nW_{n}}>1.
$$

∫ π/2 ndφ where Wn = (cos(φ)) (recall that κn = 2κn−1Wn).

Let T = Ta be the linear map such that Tei = ei when i ≤ n − 1, and Ten = aen. Then TBn2 = Ea is an ellipsoid of volume aκn. Moreover one may compute its surface area : ∫ ∫

$$
|\partial{\cal E}_{a}|=2(n-1)\kappa_{n-1}\int_{0}^{\pi/2}R_{\phi}^{n-1}(\cos(\phi))^{n-2}d\phi=2(n-1)\kappa_{n-1}\int_{0}^{\pi/2}r_{\phi}^{n-1}\frac{d\phi}{\cos(\phi)}.
$$

The equation of the surface ∂Ea is r2 + = 1, where h = xn, and r = x21 + ... + x The n−1.

a2

surface can be layered according to r = R cos(φ) ∈ [0, 1], and one may write r as r =: cos(ψ) for some π2 2(ψ) 1−r h2 ψ ∈ [0, ]. Then tan tan2(φ), therefore (differentiating) (1 + tan2(ψ))dψ = r2 a2 r2 a2 2(ψ) 1+tan 2(φ))dφ 1a(1 + tan tan2(ψ))dφ, i.e. dφ = a dψ = a a(1 1+a2 tan2(ψ) 1+(a2−1) sin2(ψ)dψ.

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\cos(\phi)=\frac{r}{R}=\frac{r}{(a^{2}-(a^{2}-1)r^{2})^{1/2}}=\frac{\cos(\psi)}{(1+(a^{2}-1)\sin^{2}(\psi))^{1/2}},}\end{array}
$$