Allowing no outgoing transitions from some states for certain letters helps us to model a system for which certain actions cannot be accomplished while being in a specified state. This leads to the problem of finding a synchroniz- ing word for a finite automaton, where transition function is not defined for all states. Notice that this is the most frequent case, if we use automata to model real-world systems. In practice, it rarely happens that a real system can be modeled with a DFA where transition function is total. The transition function is usually a partial one. This fact motivated many researchers to investigate the properties of partial finite automata relevant to practical problems of synchro- nization.

We know that, in general case, checking if a partial automaton can be synchro- nized is PSPACE-complete [13] even for binary alphabet [26] and those facts are essential in our latter considerations.

In this paper we present a public key cryptosystem utilizing fact, that checking if the PFA is carefully synchronizing is PSPACE-complete. This is however not the first attempt of trying to develop asymmetric cryptosystems with the notion of finite automata. Public key cryptography on finite automata with output is discussed in [21] and uses the notion of invertible automata to provide the hard computational problem, inevitable to design such cryptosystem.

The paper is organized as follows. In the section 2 we provide with the basic notions and facts about synchronization of automata. In the sections 3 and 4 we present basic method of encryption and decryption using our cryptosystem. In the section 5 we state couple of additional improvements to ensure better security. Finally we conclude the paper in the section 6 along with possible further research to the topic.

2 Preliminaries

Partial finite automaton (PFA) is an ordered tuple A = (Q,Σ, δ), where Σ is a finite set of letters, Q is a finite set of states and δ : Q× Σ∗ → Q is a transition function, possibly not everywhere defined. In this definition we omit initial and final states, since they are not relevant to the problem of synchro- nization. For w ∈ Σ∗ and q ∈ Q we define δ(q,w) inductively: δ(q, ǫ) = q and δ(q, aw) = δ(δ(q, a),w) for a ∈ Σ, where ǫ is the empty word and δ(q, a) is defined. A word w ∈ Σ∗ is called carefully synchronizing if there exists q ∈ Q such that for every q ∈ Q, δ(q,w) = q and all transitions δ(q, w′), where w′ is any prefix of w, are defined. A PFA is called carefully synchronizing if it admits any carefully synchronizing word. For a given A we define its power automaton (which is itself a PFA) as P(A) = (2Q,Σ, τ), where 2Q stands for the set of all subsets of Q, and Σ is the same as in A. The transition function τ : 2Q × Σ → 2Q is defined as follows. Let Q′ ⊆ Q. For every a ∈ Σ we de- ⋃ ′, fine τ(Q′, a) = δ(q, a) if δ(q, a) is defined for all states q ∈ Q otherwise q∈Q′