TABLE I. Excitation (γ12, left column) and de-excitation (γ21, right column) rates for NPIs between the ground state and first 188Os excited state of a nucleus for different temperatures and densities, calculated using the ISOMEX code [25].

\begin{tabular}{cccc} \toprule \midrule Density & $\mathcal{T} = 0.01~\mathrm{MeV}$ & $\mathcal{T} = 0.1~\mathrm{MeV}$ & $\mathcal{T} = 1~\mathrm{MeV}$\\ \midrule $10~\mathrm{g/cm}^3$ & ~~~$6.0 ~10^2 ~\text{/~}~ 6.5 ~10^8 ~s^{-1}$~~~ & ~~~$7.3 ~10^8 ~\text{/~}~ 5.9 ~10^8 ~s^{-1}$~~~ & ~~~$1.6 \cdot 10^{10} ~\text{/~}~ 3.8 \cdot 10^{9} ~\text{/}~ 10^3 ~\text{ps}^{-1}$~~~ \\ \midrule $10^3~\mathrm{g/cm}^3$ & ~~~$7.0 ~10^2 ~\text{/~}~ 7.6 ~10^8 ~s^{-1}$~~~ & ~~~$7.3 ~10^8 ~\text{/~}~ 3.9 ~10^8 ~s^{-1}$~~~ & ~~~$1.6 \cdot 10^{10} ~\text{/~}~ 3.8 \cdot 10^{9} ~\text{/}~ 10^3 ~\text{ps}^{-1}$~~~ \\ \midrule $10^3 \mathrm{g/cm}^4$ & ~~~$8.0 ~10^2 ~\text{/~}~ 8.6 ~10^8 ~s^{-1}$~~~ & ~~~$7.8 ~10^8 ~\text{/~}~ 7.3 ~10^8 ~s^{-1}$~~~ & ~~~$1.61 \cdot 10^{10} ~\text{/~}~ 3.8 \cdot 10^{9} ~\text{/}~ 10^4 ~\text{ps}^{-1}$~~~ \\ \midrule \end{tabular}

check that the results converge [18]. This serves as ver- ification of the method and a baseline that allows us to evaluate the thermal effects of the plasma.

FIG. 1. A construction of the energy-resolved fusion prob- 16O 188Os ability for a projectile and target with coupled channels but without a plasma environment (T = 0 MeV). Gaussian and Coulomb wave packets are used, taking the av- erage energy-resolved fusion probability for a range of incident mean energies, E0. Error bars due to statistical error are included but most are insignificant. The nominal Coulomb barrier between these nuclei is 71.7 MeV.

Fig. 2 shows the population of the radial grid basis states over time for an initial Gaussian wave packet with an average energy E0 = 70 MeV and a temperature T = 0.1 MeV. The change of population of both the ground 188Os state (elastic channel) and the 2+ excited state of (inelastic channel) due to both thermal effects and the radial coupling between these states can be observed. To isolate the effects of temperature on fusion proba- bility, the increase in energy-resolved fusion probability was calculated using the ratio between coupled channels calculations at either T = 0.1 MeV or T = 0.5 MeV and T = 0 MeV, shown in Fig. 3. The fusion probabil- ity was calculated by taking the average energy-resolved fusion probability for initial wave packets with varying E0. For T = 0.1 MeV, the green (square) points were calculated using a Gaussian wave packet with E0 = 60, 63, 65, 67 and 70 MeV, and the blue (circle) points were calculated using a Coulomb wave packet with E0 = 65, 67 and 70 MeV. The same method was used for both

FIG. 2. Radial position probability as a function of internu- 16O 188Os clear radius and time for a head-on collision of + with E0 = 70 MeV and T = 0.1 MeV. The radial probability changes for (a) the elastic and (b) inelastic channels respec- tively, as the nuclei approach their Coulomb barrier (r ≈ 11.5 fm). The inelastic channel is thermally populated before the target and projectile interact with each other. For visualisa- tion, when the mean radius is larger than 20 fm, the time step is 3× 10−22 s.

T = 0 and T = 0.5 MeV. The error bars associated with these points are simply due to the standard error in the mean. We use a Gaussian wave packet for its accuracy at deep sub-barrier energies compared to a Coulomb wave packet. However, a Coulomb wave packet offers a better global description of fusion probability around and above