$$
\rho_{\alpha\alpha}^{rs}(t=0)=w_{\alpha}\left|r\right\rangle\left\langle s\right|,
$$

(2)

$$
\psi(r,r_{0},\sigma_{0},k_{0})={\cal N}^{-1}\,\exp\bigg[-{\frac{(r-r_{0})^{2}}{2\sigma_{0}^{2}}}\bigg]{\cal B}(k_{0}r),
$$

(3)

whereN is a normalisation constant, r0 is the initial, cen- tral position of the wave packet, r is a radial grid position, σ0 is the spatial dispersion, and k0 is the average wave number, which depends on the average incident energy E0, r0 and σ0 and is found by solving E0 = 〈ψ| Ĥ |ψ〉, Ĥ being the Hamiltonian of the collision. Eq. (3) with a plane-wave boost is a Gaussian wave packet, while this is a Coulomb wave packet when a Coulomb-wave boost is used.

In Eq. (2), the density matrix is diagonal in the energy eigenstate basis, denoted by |α〉. The initial population of the energy eigenstates is given as,

$$
w_{\alpha}=\frac{(2I_{\alpha}+1)\,\exp\biggl\{-\frac{e_{\alpha}}{{\cal T}}\biggr\}}{\displaystyle\sum_{\alpha^{'}=1}^{N}(2I_{\alpha^{'}}+1)\,\exp\biggl\{-\frac{e_{\alpha^{'}}}{{\cal T}}\biggr\}},
$$

(4)

where Iα is the spin value. Since the present calculations 188Os only include excited states of the ground-state ro- tational band, the spin degeneracy factors in Eq. (4) will be irrelevant. Excited states are thermally popu- lated before the target and projectile interact with each other and thermodynamic equilibrium is assumed at the start of the reaction [19, 20]. As known from coupled channels calculations, coupling of the radial motion to energy eigenstates can cause changes in fusion probabil- ity. Population of excited states in either the target or projectile nucleus due to surface vibrations or rotational excited states lead to an overall increase in fusion prob- ability due to coherent coupled channels effects [21]. For the dynamical calculations, we use the same equation of motion for the density matrix of the reduced system as the one used in Ref. [18], Eq. (5). This method uses the Lindblad master equation, allowing coupling between the radial and energy eigenstate bases, and uses Lindblad operators to introduce novel effects into the calculation. An energy projection technique is used to calculate the fusion probability for specific collision energies [18]. 188Os In the following calculations, we use a target nucleus due to its low-lying 2+ rotational excited state 16O at 155 keV [22] and a projectile nucleus due to its

high 6.13 MeV first excited state. Hence we only con- 16O sider the ground state of and the ground and first 188Os. excited state of The parameters used in these calculations are the same as in Ref. [18], except from the potential parameters which are unique to the pro- jectile and target pair. The Woods-Saxon nuclear in- teraction potential parameters used in this work are: V0 = 60.64 MeV,R0 = 1.2 fm, a0 = 0.63 fm, and these parameters provide the same height of the uncoupled Coulomb barrier (VB = 71.7 MeV) as the microscopic São Paulo potential [23]. The deformation parameter of the 155 keV excited state is β2 = 0.184 [24].

Atomic effects. NPI effects are included in the calcu- lations by introducing new matrix elements into Eq. (5) of Ref. [18],

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\Gamma_{12}^{rr}=\gamma_{12}}\\ {\Gamma_{21}^{rr}=\gamma_{21},}\end{array}
$$

(5)

(6)

where γ12 and γ21 are the respective excitation and de- excitation rates between the ground state and first ex- 188Os. cited state of These affect the excited state popu- lation, dependent on the temperature and density of the plasma. The relevant rates for this work are shown in Ta- ble I, and were calculated using the ISOMEX code [25], which is based on the relativistic average atom model and assumes local thermal equilibrium. The considered ex- citation processes due to NPIs are: resonant photon ab- sorption, inelastic electron scattering, NEEC and NEET. The de-excitation processes include spontaneous photon emission, induced photon emission, internal conversion, bound internal conversion (BIC), and super-elastic elec- 188Os tron scattering. Since the excited state of is much higher than the binding energy of the K-shell atomic or- bitals, NEET and BIC do not contribute to the plasma induced nuclear transition rates.

It was found that the effects of NPIs were negligible 16O (< 10−6 % increase in fusion probability) for a pro- 188Os jectile and target, at all temperatures and densities considered. Considering that the timescale of the fusion reactions is of the order of 10−22 s, the effective excitation rates are too low to have an impact on the population of the excited state [26] and therefore the overall effect on fusion is weak.

Nuclear fusion reactions are commonly initiated from the ground state of the collision partners. Should scenar- ios exist where fusion reactions are initiated from long- lived intrinsic high angular momentum excited states, the NPIs would be more effective [27]. Additionally, a recent experiment [28] showed that missing excited electronic configurations could be a reason for discrepancy between theory and experiment for NEEC reactions.

Results and discussion. We construct the cou- pled channels fusion probability of a zero temperature, 16O environment-less fusion reaction for an inert projec- 188Os tile and target with two states (ground and first excited state), given in Fig. 1. Multiple wave packets with different initial mean energies (E0) were used to