Acknowledgment. IL and AD-T acknowledge support from the Leverhulme Trust (UK) under Grant No. RPG- 2019-325.

[1] V. Singh, J. Vadas, T. Steinbach, B. Wiggins, S. Hudan, goni, Neutron physics of the Re/Os clock. II. The ′ R. de Souza, Z. Lin, C. Horowitz, L. Baby, S. Kuvin, 187Os (n, n ) cross section of at 30 keV neutron energy, V. Tripathi, I. Wiedenhöver, and A. Umar, Fusion en- Phys. Rev. C 82, 015803 (2010).

19O+12C, hancement at near and sub-barrier energies in

[17] K. Fujii et al., Neutron physics of the re/os clock. iii. Physics Letters B 765, 99 (2017). resonance analyses and stellar (n, γ) cross sections of

[2] V. I. Zagrebaev, V. V. Samarin, and W. Greiner, Sub- 186,187,188Os, Phys. Rev. C 82, 015804 (2010). barrier fusion of neutron-rich nuclei and its astrophysical [18] I. Lee and A. Diaz-Torres, Coherence consequences, Phys. Rev. C 75, 035809 (2007).

dynamics in low-energy nuclear fusion, [3] E. Salpeter, Electrons Screening and Thermonuclear Re- Physics Letters B 827, 136970 (2022). actions, Australian Journal of Physics 7, 373 (1954). [19] A. A. Dzhioev, A. I. Vdovin, G. Mart́ınez-Pinedo, [4] S. Ichimaru, Strongly coupled plasmas: high-density J. Wambach, and C. Stoyanov, Thermal quasiparti- classical plasmas and degenerate electron liquids, cle random-phase approximation with Skyrme interac- Rev. Mod. Phys. 54, 1017 (1982).

tions and supernova neutral-current neutrino-nucleus re- [5] B. L. Whitten, N. F. Lane, and J. C. Weisheit, actions, Phys. Rev. C 94, 015805 (2016).

Plasma-screening effects on electron-impact ex- [20] A. A. Dzhioev, K. Langanke, G. Mart́ınez-Pinedo, A. I. citation of hydrogenic ions in dense plasmas, Vdovin, and C. Stoyanov, Unblocking of stellar electron Phys. Rev. A 29, 945 (1984).

capture for neutron-rich N=50 nuclei at finite tempera- [6] C. E. Rolfs and W. S. Rodney, Cauldrons in the cosmos, ture, Phys. Rev. C 101, 025805 (2020).

Theoretical Astrophysics (University of Chicago Press, [21] A. B. Balantekin and N. Takigawa, Quantum tunneling Chicago, IL, 2006).

in nuclear fusion, Rev. Mod. Phys. 70, 77 (1998).

[7] B. Jancovici, Pair correlation function in a dense [22] R. Thompson, A. Ikeda, R. Sheline, J. Cunnane, plasma and pycnonuclear reactions in stars, 188Os

S. Yates, and P. Daly, Levels of populated in the J. of Stat. Phys. 17, 357 (1977). 189Os(d, 188Ir, t)188Os reaction and in the decay of 41h

[8] M. Aliotta and K. Langanke, Screening effects in stars Nuclear Physics A 245, 444 (1975). and in the laboratory, Front. Phys. 10, 942726 (2022). [23] L. C. Chamon, B. V. Carlson, L. R. Gasques, D. Pereira, [9] E. G. Adelberger et al., Solar fusion cross C. De Conti, M. A. G. Alvarez, M. S. Hussein, M. A. sections. pp chain and cycles, II. The

CNO

Cândido Ribeiro, E. S. Rossi, and C. P. Silva, Toward Rev. Mod. Phys. 83, 195 (2011). a global description of the nucleus-nucleus interaction, [10] N. Itoh, H. Totsuji, S. Ichimaru, and H. E. De- Phys. Rev. C 66, 014610 (2002).

Witt, Enhancement of thermonuclear reaction [24] National Nuclear Data Center, informa- rates due to strong screening. mixtures, II Ionic tion extracted from the NuDat database, The Astrophys. J. 234, 1079 (1979).

https://www.nndc.bnl.gov/nudat/.

[11] D. L. Bleuel et al., Method for Detection of [25] G. Gosselin and P. Morel, Enhanced nuclear level decay 134Xe-Doped Nuclear-Plasma Interactions in a

Ex- in hot dense plasmas, Phys. Rev. C 70, 064603 (2004). ploding Pusher at the National Ignition Facility, [26] G. Gosselin, V. Méot, and P. Morel, Modi- Plasma and Fusion Research 11, 3401075 (2016).

fied nuclear level lifetime in hot dense plasmas, [12] S. Helmrich, K. Spenneberg, and A. Pálffy, Coupling Phys. Rev. C 76, 044611 (2007).

highly excited nuclei to the atomic shell in dense astro- [27] C. J. Chiara, J. J. Carroll, M. P. Carpenter, J. P. physical plasmas, Phys. Rev. C 90, 015802 (2014). Greene, D. J. Hartley, R. V. F. Janssens, G. J. Lane, [13] A. Pálffy, W. Scheid, and Z. Harman, Theory of nu- J. C. Marsh, D. A. Matters, M. Polasik, J. Rzad- clear excitation by electron capture for heavy ions, kiewicz, D. Seweryniak, S. Zhu, S. Bottoni, A. B. Hayes, Phys. Rev. A 73, 012715 (2006).

and S. A. Karamian, Isomer depletion as experimen- [14] M. Morita, Nuclear Excitation by Electron Transi- tal evidence of nuclear excitation by electron capture, tion and Its Application to Uranium 235 Separa- Nature 554, 216 (2018).

tion, Progress of Theoretical Physics 49, 1574 (1973), [28] S. Gargiulo, I. Madan, and F. Carbone, Nuclear https://academic.oup.com/ptp/article-pdf/49/5/1574/5411690/49-5-1574.pdf.

excitation by electron capture in excited ions, [15] R. Gallino et al., Evolution and nucleosynthesis in low- Phys. Rev. Lett. 128, 212502 (2022). mass asymptotic giant branch stars. II. Neutron capture [29] C. Dasso, S. Landowne, and A. Winther, Channel- and the s-process, The Astrophys. J. 497, 388 (1998). coupling effects in heavy-ion fusion reactions, [16] M. Mosconi, M. Heil, F. Käppeler, R. Plag, and A. Men- Nuclear Physics A 405, 381 (1983).