2) Decoding at Sink Node D: First, using the linear encoder ϕ(n), D encodes the key Kn received through private channel into K̃m =(ϕ(n)(Kn). Receiving C̃m from public communication channel, D computes X̃m in the following way. From (5), we have that the decoder D can obtain X̃m = φ(n)(Xn) by subtracting K̃m = ϕ(n)(Kn) from C̃m. Finally, D outputs X̂n by applying the decoder ψ(n) to X̃m as follows:

$$
{\widehat{X}}^{n}=\psi^{(n)}({\widetilde{X}}^{m})=\psi^{(n)}(\phi^{(n)}(X^{n})).
$$

Our privacy amplified system described above is illustrated in Fig. 2.

On Reliability:

From the description of our system in the previous section, the decoding process in our system above is successful if X̂n = Xn holds. Combining this and (6), it is clear that the decoding error probability pe is as follows:

$$
p_{\mathrm{e}}=p_{\mathrm{e}}(\phi^{(n)},\psi^{(n)}|p_{X}^{n}):=\mathrm{Pr}[\psi^{(n)}(\phi^{(n)}(X^{n}))\neq X^{n}].
$$

On Security: (n) (n) n).

Set M = ϕ The adversary A tries to estimate Xn ∈ Xn from

$$
(\tilde{C}^{m},M_{{\cal A}}^{(n)})=(\varphi^{(n)}(X^{n}\oplus K^{n}),M_{{\cal A}}^{(n)})\in{\cal X}^{m}\times M_{{\cal A}}^{(n)}.
$$

.

We assume that the adversary A knows (A, bn) defining the affine encoder ϕ(n). The information leakage ∆(n) on Xn (n) ) is measured by the mutual information from (C̃m,M (n) between Xn and (C̃m, M ). This quantity is formally defined by

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\Delta^{(n)}=\Delta^{(n)}(\varphi^{(n)},\varphi_{\cal A}^{(n)}|{p}_{X}^{n},{p}_{K}^{n},W^{n})}\\ &{:=I(X^{n};\widetilde{C}^{m},M_{\cal A}^{(n)})=I(X^{n};\varphi^{(n)}({{X}^{n}}\oplus{{K}^{n}}),M_{\cal A}^{(n)}.}\end{array}
$$

Reliable and Secure Framework:

Definition 1: A quantity R is achievable under RA > 0 for the system Sys if there exists a sequence {(ϕ(n), ψ(n))}n≥1 such that ∀ǫ > 0, ∃n0 = n0(ǫ) ∈ N0, ∀n ≥ n0, we have

$$
\begin{array}{l}{\displaystyle\frac{1}{n}\log|{\cal X}^{m}|=\frac{m}{n}\log|{\cal X}|\in[R-\epsilon,R+\epsilon],}\\ {\displaystyle p_{\mathrm{e}}(\phi^{(n)},\psi^{(n)}|p_{X}^{n})\leq\epsilon}\end{array}
$$

(n) and for any eavesdropper A with ϕA satisfying ϕ ∈ (n) F (RA + ǫ), we have

$$
\Delta^{(n)}(\varphi^{(n)},\varphi_{A}^{(n)}|{p}_{X}^{n},{p}_{K}^{n},W^{(n)})\leq\epsilon.
$$

Definition 2: (Reliable and Secure Rate Region) Let RSys(pX , pK ,W ) denote the set of all (RA, R) such that R is achievable under RA. We call RSys(pX , pK , W ) the reliable and secure rate region.

III. PREVIOUS RESULT

In this section we state the previous result by Santoso and Oohama [5]. They obtained inner bounds of RSys(pX , pK , W ) and DSys(pX , pK ,W ). To describe their results we define several functions and sets. We first define several sets related to RSys(pX , pK , W ). Let U be an auxiliary random variable

taking values in a finite set U . We assume that the joint distribution of (U,Z,K) is

$$
p_{UZK}(u,z,k)=p_{U}(u)p_{Z|U}(z|u)p_{K|Z}(k|z).
$$

The above condition is equivalent to U ↔ Z ↔ K . Define the set of probability distribution p = pUZK by

$$
\mathcal{P}(p_{K},W):=\{p_{UZK}:|\mathcal{U}|\leq|\mathcal{Z}|+1,U\leftrightarrow Z\leftrightarrow K\}.
$$

Set

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\mathcal{R}(p):=\{(R_{\mathcal{A}},R):R_{\mathcal{A}},R\geq0,\qquad\qquad\qquad}\\ {R_{\mathcal{A}}\geq I(Z;U),R\geq H(K|U)\},}\\ {\mathcal{R}(p_{K},W):=\bigcup_{p\in\mathcal{P}(p_{K},W)}\mathcal{R}(p).}\end{array}
$$

We can show that the region R(pK ,W ) satisfies the following property.

Property 1: 2

a) The regionR(pK ,W ) is a closed convex subset of R + {RA ≥ 0, R ≥ 0}.

b) For any (pK ,W ), we have

$$
{\cal R}(p_{K},W)\subseteq\{(R_{\cal A},R):R_{\cal A}+R\geq H(K)\}\cap\mathbb{R}_{+}^{2}.
$$

Furthermore, the point (0, H(K)) always belongs to R(pK ,W ).

Property 1 part a) is a well known property. Proof of Property 1 part b) is easy. Proofs of Property 1 parts a) and b) are omitted.

We next define a function related to an exponential upper (n), bound of pe(φ ψ(n)|pnX). Let X be an arbitrary random variable over X and has a probability distribution pX . Let P(X ) denote the set of all probability distributions on X . For R ≥ 0 and pX ∈ P(X ), we define the following function:

$$
E(R|p_{X}):=\operatorname*{min}_{p_{\overline{{X}}}\in\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{X})}\{[R-H(\overline{{X}})]^{+}+D(p_{\overline{{X}}}||p_{X})\}.
$$

We finally define a function related to an exponential upper (n) n n n). |p , p ,W bound of ∆(n)(ϕ(n), ϕ

Set X K

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\mathcal{Q}(p_{K|Z}):=\{q=q_{UZK}:|\mathcal{U}|\le|\mathcal{Z}|,U\leftrightarrow Z\leftrightarrow K,}\\ {p_{K|Z}=q_{K|Z}\}.}\end{array}
$$

For (µ, α) ∈ [0, 1]2 and for q = qUZK ∈ Q(pK|Z), define

qZ(z) (µ,α) ω (z, k|u) := ᾱ log q|pZ pZ(z) qZ|U (z|u) + α µ log +µ̄ log , pZ(z) qK|U (k|u) }] (µ,α) Ω(µ,α)(q|pZ) := − log Eq exp −ω (Z,K|U) , q|pZ Ω(µ,α)(pK ,W ) := min Ω(µ,α)(q|pZ), q∈Q(pK|Z ) (µ,α)(µRA F + µ̄R|pK ,W )

Ω(µ,α)(pK ,W )− α(µRA + µ̄R) , 2 + αµ̄ (µ,α)(µRA F (RA, R|pK ,W ) := sup F + µ̄R|pK ,W ). (µ,α) ∈[0,1]2