Universal Coding for Shannon Ciphers under

Side-Channel Attacks

Bagus Santoso and Yasutada Oohama

University of Electro-Communications, Tokyo, Japan Email: {santoso.bagus,oohama}@uec.ac.jp

Abstract—We study the universal coding under side-channel attacks posed and investigated by Santoso and Oohama (2019). They proposed a theoretical security model for Shannon cipher system under side-channel attacks, where the adversary is not only allowed to collect ciphertexts by eavesdropping the public communication channel, but is also allowed to collect the physical information leaked by the devices where the cipher system is implemented on such as running time, power consumption, electromagnetic radiation, etc. For any distributions of the plain text, any noisy channels through which the adversary observe the corrupted version of the key, and any measurement device used for collecting the physical information, we can derive an achievable rate region for reliability and security such that if we compress the ciphertext using an affine encoder with rate within the achievable rate region, then: (1) anyone with secret key will be able to decrypt and decode the ciphertext correctly, but (2) any adversary who obtains the ciphertext and also the side physical information will not be able to obtain any information about the hidden source as long as the leaked physical information is encoded with a rate within the rate region.

I. INTRODUCTION

In this paper, we consider the problem of strengthening the security of communication in the Shannon cipher system when we have side channel attacks to the cryptosystem. Especially, we are interested on practical solutions with minimum modifi- cations which can be applied even on already running systems.

More precisely, we consider a cryptosystem described as follows: a source X is encrypted in a node to C using secret key K . The cipher text C is sent through a public communication channel to a sink node, where X is decrypted from C using K . We suppose that an already running system has a potential secrecy/privacy problem such that X might be leaked to an adversary which is eavesdropping the public communication channel and is also using a side-channel providing some side information on K .

To pose side channel-attacks to the Shannon cipher system, we regard them as a signal estimation via encoded data from two distributed sensors. This can be formulated as the one helper source coding problem posed and investigated by Ahlswede, Körner [1] and Wyner [2].

We further investigate the posed problem to derive new se- crecy bounds. Our results are derived by two previous results. One is the coding theorem Watanabe and Oohama [3] obtained for the privacy amplification problem for bounded storage eavesdropper posed by them. The other is the exponential strong converse theorem Oohama [4] established for the one helper source coding problem.

II. PROBLEM FORMULATION

A. Preliminaries

In this subsection, we show the basic notations and related consensus used in this paper.

Random Source of Information and Key: Let X and K be two random variables from a finite set X . The random variable X represents the source. The ramdom K represents the key ∞ used for encryption. Let {Xt} be a stationary discrete t=1

memoryless source(DMS) such that for each t = 1, 2, . . ., Xt takes values in finite set X and has the same distribution as that of X denoted by pX = {pX(x)}x∈X . The stationary ∞ ∞ DMS {Xt} is specified with pX . Similarly, let {Kt} be t=1 t=1 a stationary DMS specified with the distribution pK of K . Random Variables and Sequences: We write the sequence of random variables with length n from the information source as follows: Xn := X1X2 · · ·Xn. Similarly, the strings with n. length n of Xn are written as xn := x1x2 · · ·xn ∈ X For n) xn ∈ Xn, pXn(x stands for the probability of the occurrence of xn. When the information source is memoryless specified with pX , we have the following equation holds:

$$
p_{X^{n}}(x^{n})=\prod_{t=1}^{n}p_{X}(x_{t}).
$$

n) n). In this case we write pXn(x as pnX(x Similar notations are used for other random variables and sequences.

Consensus and Notations: Without loss of generality, through- out this paper, we assume that X is a finite field. The notation ⊕ is used to denote the field addition operation, while the notation ⊖ is used to denote the field subtraction operation, i.e., a⊖ b = a⊕ (−b) for any elements a, b ∈ X . Throughout this paper all logarithms are taken to the base natural.

B. Basic System Description

In this subsection we explain the basic system setting and basic adversarial model we consider in this paper. First, let the information source and the key be generated independently by different parties Sgen and Kgen respectively. In our setting, we assume that the random key Kn is generated by Kgen from uniform distribution. We further assume that the source is generated by Sgen and independent of the key. Next, let the random source Xn from Sgen be sent to the node L. And let the random key Kn from Kgen be also sent to L. Further settings of our system are described as follows. Those are also shown in Fig. 1.

arXiv:2302.01314v2 [cs.IT] 7 Feb 2023