Fig. 1. Side-channel attacks to the Shannon cipher system.

Fig. 2. Our proposed solution: linear encoders as privacy amplifiers.

1) Source Processing: At the node , Xn is encrypted with the key Kn using the encryption function Enc. The ciphertext Cn of Xn is given by Cn := Enc(Xn) = Xn ⊕Kn.

2) Transmission: Next, the ciphertext Cn is sent to the information processing center D through a public com- munication channel. Meanwhile, the key Kn is sent to D through a private communication channel.

3) Sink Node Processing: In D, we decrypt the ciphertext Cn using the keyKn through the corresponding decryp- tion procedure Dec defined by Dec(Cn) = Cn ⊖ Kn.

It is obvious that we can correctly reproduce the source output Xn from Cn and Kn by the decryption function Dec.

Side-Channel Attacks by Eavesdropper Adversary:

An (eavesdropper) adversary A eavesdrops the public com- munication channel in the system. The adversary A also uses a side information obtained by side-channel attacks. Let Z be a finite set and letW : X → Z be a noisy channel. Let Z be a channel output from W for the input random variable K . We consider the discrete memoryless channel specified with W . Let Zn ∈ Zn be a random variable obtained as the channel output by connecting Kn ∈ Xn to the input of channel. We write a conditional distribution on Zn given Kn as

$$
W^{n}=\{W^{n}(z^{n}|k^{n})\}_{(k^{n},z^{n})\in\mathcal{K}^{n}\times\mathcal{Z}^{n}}.
$$

Since the channel is memoryless, we have

$$
W^{n}(z^{n}|k^{n})=\prod_{t=1}^{n}W(z_{t}|k_{t}).
$$

(1)

On the above output Zn of Wn for the input Kn, we assume the followings.

The three random variables X , K and Z , satisfy X ⊥

• (K,Z), which implies that Xn ⊥ (Kn, Zn). W is given in the system and the adversary A can not

• control W .

By side-channel attacks, the adversary A can access Zn.

•

We next formulate side information the adversaryA obtains by (n) n → side-channel attacks. For each n = 1, 2, · · · , let ϕ (n) (n) M }n=1,2,···. Let be an encoder function. Set ϕA := {ϕ

$$
R_{\mathcal{A}}^{(n)}:=\frac{1}{n}\log\vert\vert\varphi_{\mathcal{A}}\vert\vert=\frac{1}{n}\log\vert\mathcal{M}_{\mathcal{A}}^{(n)}\vert
$$

(n) be a rate of the encoder function ϕ . For RA > 0, we set

$$
{\cal F}_{\cal A}^{(n)}(R_{\cal A}):=\{{\varphi}_{\cal A}^{(n)}:R_{\cal A}^{(n)}\leq R_{\cal A}\}.
$$

On encoded side information the adversary A obtains we assume the following.

The adversary A, having accessed Zn, obtains the en- • (n) n). coded additional information ϕ For each n = (n) 1, 2, · · · , the adversary A can design ϕ (n) ∞ The sequence {R } must be upper bounded by a

• n=1 prescribed value. In other words, the adversary A must (n) use ϕ such that for some RA and for any sufficiently (n) (n) large n, ϕ ∈ F (RA).

C. Proposed Idea: Affine Encoder as Privacy Amplifier

For each n = 1, 2, · · · , let φ(n) : Xn → Xm be a linear mapping. We define the mapping φ(n) by

$$
\phi^{(n)}(x^{n})=x^{n}A{\mathrm{~for~}}x^{n}\in{\mathcal{X}}^{n},
$$

(2)

where A is a matrix with n rows and m columns. Entries of A are from X . We fix bm ∈ Xm. Define the mapping ϕ(n) : Xn → Xm by

$$
\begin{array}{l}{\displaystyle\varphi^{(n)}(k^{n}):=\!\phi^{(n)}(k^{n})\oplus b^{n}\!}\\ {\displaystyle\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\!\!=\!k^{n}A\oplus b^{m},\ \!\textnormal{for}\ k^{n}\in\mathcal{X}^{n}.}\end{array}
$$

The mapping ϕ(n) is called the affine mapping induced by the linear mapping φ(n) and constant vector bm ∈ Xm. By the definition (3) of ϕ(n), those satisfy the following affine structure:

(3)

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\varphi^{(n)}({{y}^{n}}\oplus{{k}^{n}})({{x}^{n}}\oplus{{k}^{n}})A\oplus b^{m}={{x}^{n}}A\oplus({{k}^{n}}A\oplus b^{m}}\\ &{=\phi^{(n)}({{x}^{n}})\oplus\varphi^{(n)}({{k}^{n}}),\ \textrm{for}\ {{x}^{n}},{{k}^{n}}\in{{\mathcal{X}}^{n}}.}\end{array}
$$

(4)

Next, let ψ(n) be the corresponding decoder for φ(n) such that ψ(n) : Xm → Xn. Note that ψ(n) does not have a linear structure in general.

Description of Proposed Procedure:

We describe the procedure of our privacy amplified system as follows.

1) Encoding of Ciphertext: First, we use ϕ(n) to encode the ciphertext Cn = Xn ⊕ Kn. Let C̃m = ϕ(n)(Cn).

Then, instead of sending Cn, we send C̃m to the public communication channel. By the affine structure (4) of encoder we have that

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\widetilde{C}^{m}=\varphi^{(n)}({{X}^{n}}\oplus{{K}^{n}})}\\ &{=\phi^{(n)}({{X}^{n}})\oplus\varphi^{(n)}({{K}^{n}})=\widetilde{X}^{m}\oplus\widetilde{K}^{m},}\end{array}
$$

= φ(n)(Xn)⊕ ϕ(n)(Kn) = X̃m ⊕ K̃m, (5) where we set X̃m := φ(n)(Xn), K̃m := ϕ(n)(Kn). X̂n = ψ(n)(X̃m) = ψ(n)(φ(n)(Xn)). (6)