We can show that the above functions satisfy the following property.

Property 2:

a) The cardinality bound |U| ≤ |Z| in Q(pK|Z) is sufficient to describe the quantity Ω(µ,α)(pK ,W ).

b) Fix any p = pUZK ∈ Psh(pK ,W ) and µ ∈ [0, 1]. Define

$$
\tilde{\omega}_{p}^{(\mu)}(z,k|u):=\mu\log\frac{p_{Z|U}(z|u)}{p_{Z}(z)}+\log\frac{1}{p_{K|U}(K|U)},
$$

(7)

.

For λ ∈ [0, 1/2], we define a probability distribution (λ) p(λ) = p by UZK

$$
p^{(\lambda)}(u,z,k):=\frac{p(u,z,k)\exp\left\{-\lambda\tilde{\omega}_{p}^{(\mu)}(z,k|u)\right\}}{\mathrm{E}_{p}\left[\exp\left\{-\lambda\tilde{\omega}_{p}^{(\mu)}(Z,K|U)\right\}\right]}.
$$

For (µ, λ) ∈ [0, 1]× [0, 1/2], define

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\rho^{(\mu,\lambda)}(p_{K},W)}\\ &{:=\underset{\left(\nu,p\right)\in[0,\lambda]}{\operatorname*{max}}\quad\mathrm{Var}_{p^{(\nu)}}\left[\tilde{\omega}_{p}^{(\mu)}(Z,K|U)\right],}\\ &{\quad=\tilde{\Omega}^{(\mu,\lambda)}(p_{K},W)}\end{array}
$$

and set

$$
\rho=\rho(p_{K},W):=\operatorname*{max}_{(\mu,\lambda)\in[0,1]\times[0,1/2]}\rho^{(\mu,\lambda)}(p_{K},W).
$$

Then we have ρ(pK ,W ) < ∞. Furthermore, for every τ ∈ (0, (1/2)ρ(pK ,W )), the condition (RA, R + τ) /∈ R(pK ,W ) implies

$$
\begin{array}{r}{F(R_{\mathcal{A}},R|p_{K},W)>\frac{\rho(p_{K},W)}{4} \cdot g^{2}\cdot\frac{\tau}{\rho(p_{K},W)}>0,}\end{array}
$$

where g is the inverse function of ϑ(a) := a + (3/2)a2, a ≥ 0.

Proof of this property is found in Oohama [6]. Define

$$
{\mathcal{R}}^{(\mathrm{in})}(p_{X},p_{K},W):=\{R>H(H(X)\}\cap{\mathcal{R}}^{c}(p_{K},W).
$$

The functions E(R|pX) and F (RA, R|pK ,W ) take positive (in) (pX , pK ,W ). values if and only if (RA, R) belongs to R Sys Define δi,n, i = 1, 2 by

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{\delta_{1,n}:=\frac{1}{n}\log\left[\mathrm{e}(n+1)^{2|\mathcal{X}|}\{(n+1)^{|\mathcal{X}|}+1\}\right],}\\ &{\delta_{2,n}:=\frac{1}{n}\log\left[5nR\{(n+1)^{|\mathcal{X}|}+1\}\right].}\end{array}
$$

Note that for i = 1, 2, δi,n → 0 as n → ∞. Santoso and Oohama [5] proved the following result.

Theorem 1: For any RA, R > 0, and any (pK ,W ) with c(pZ (RA, R) ∈ R ,W ), there exists a sequence of mappings {(ϕ(n), ψ(n))}∞n=1 satisfying

$$
R-\frac{1}{n}\leq\frac{1}{n}\log|\mathcal{X}^{m}|=\frac{m}{n}\log|\mathcal{X}|\leq R
$$

such that for any pX with R > H(X), we have that

$$
p_{\mathrm{e}}(\phi^{(n)},\psi^{(n)}|p_{X}^{n}\rangle\leq\mathrm{e}^{-n[E(R|p_{X})-\delta_{1,n}]}
$$

Fig. 3. The inner bound R(in)(pX , pK ,W ) of the reliable and secure rate region RSys(pX , pK W ).

(n) ∈ and that for any eavesdropper A with ϕA satisfying ϕ (n) F (RA),

$$
\begin{array}{r}{\Delta^{(n)}(\varphi^{(n)},\varphi_{\cal A}^{(n)}|{p}_{X}^{n},{p}_{K}^{n},W^{n})}\\ {\leq\mathrm{e}^{-n[F(R_{\cal A},R|p_{K},W)-\delta_{2,n}]}.}\end{array}
$$

(in)(pX , pK ,W ), we By Theorem 1, under (RA, R) ∈ R have the followings: (n), ψ(n)|pnX) goes to zero expo- On the reliability, pe(φ

•

nentially as n tends to infinity, and its exponent is lower bounded by the function E(R|pX). (n) (n) On the security, for any ϕ belonging to F ( RA), the

• (n) n n n) |p , p ,W information leakage ∆(n)(ϕ(n), ϕ goes X K

to zero exponentially as n tends to infinity, and its expo- nent is lower bounded by the function F (RA, R|pK ,W ). The code that attains the exponent functions E( R|pX)

•

is the universal code that depends only on R not on the value of the distribution pX .

From Theorem 1, we have the following corollary.

Corollary 1:

$$
{\cal R}^{(\mathrm{in})}(p_{X},p_{K},W)\subseteq{\cal R}_{\mathrm{Sys}}(p_{X},p_{K},W).
$$

A typical shape of the region R(in)(pX , pK ,W ) is shown in Fig. 3.

IV. MAIN RESULT

To describe our main result we define several quantities. For pK ∈ P(X × Z), define Z

$$
\begin{array}{l}{{\displaystyle G^{(\mu,\alpha)}(\mu R_{\cal A}+\bar{\mu}R|p_{\overline{{K}}Z})}\ ~}\\ {{\displaystyle{:=}\frac{\Omega^{(\mu,\alpha)}(p_{\overline{{K}}Z})-\alpha(\mu R_{\cal A}+\bar{\mu}R)}{2+3\alpha\bar{\mu}},}}\\ {{\displaystyle{G(R_{\cal A},R|p_{\overline{{K}}Z}):=\operatorname*{sup}_{(\mu,\alpha)\atop\varepsilon[0,1]^{2}}G^{(\mu,\alpha)}(\mu R_{\cal A}+\bar{\mu}R|p_{\overline{{K}}Z})}.}}\end{array}
$$

By simple computation we can show that

$$
G(R_{\mathcal{A}},R|p_{\overline{{K}}Z})\ge(1/3)F(R_{\mathcal{A}},R|p_{\overline{{K}}Z}).
$$

Set

(8)

$$
\begin{array}{rl}&{G(R_{\mathcal{A}},R|p_{K},W)}\\ &{:=\underset{p_{\overline{{K}}}\overline{{Z}}\in\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{K}\times\mathcal{Z})}{\operatorname*{min}}\left\{G(R_{\mathcal{A}},R|p_{\overline{{K}}\,\overline{{Z}}})+D(p_{\overline{{K}}}\overline{{Z}}||p_{X},W)\right\}.}\end{array}
$$