IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 1, NO. 2, DECEMBER 2023

Zheng Liu (SeniorMember, IEEE) received theDoc- torate degree in engineering (earth resources) from Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan, in 2000, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the Uni- versity of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada, in 2007. From 2000 to 2001, he was a Research Fellowwith Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. He then joined theNational Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, as a Governmental Laboratory Visiting Fel- low nominated by theNatural Sciences and Engineer- ing Research Council in 2001. In 2002, he became a ResearchOfficer associatedwith two research institutes of theNationalResearch Council Canada (Institute for Aerospace Research and Institute for Research in Construction). From 2012 to 2015, he was a Full Professor with the Toyota Technological Institute, Nagoya, Japan. He is currently a Professor with the Faculty of Applied Science, The University of British Columbia, Kelowna, BC, Canada. His research interests include predictive maintenance, data/information fusion, computer/machine vision, machine learning, smart sensor and industrial Internet of Things, and nondestructive inspection and evaluation.

Dr. Liu is theCo-Chair of the IEEE Instrumentation andMeasurement Society Technical Committee (TC-1). He is on the Editorial Board for journals includ- ing IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, IEEE JOURNAL OF RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION, Information Fusion, Machine Vision and Applications, and IET/CAAITransactions on Intelligence Technology. He also serves the Standards & Interoperability Committee of the Research Data Canada. He is a Fellow of the International Society for Optical Engineers. He is a licensed Professional Engineer in both British Columbia and Ontario.

Gaozhi (George) Xiao (Fellow, IEEE) received the Ph.D. degree in materials engineering from Lough- borough University, Loughborough, U.K., in 1995.

He has managed large R&D projects in indus- tries, academics, and government labs covering areas including radio frequency identification/near-field communication, flexible/printable/wearable elec- tronics, fiber-optic sensor systems, photonic sensing and measurement, structural health monitoring, in- door air quality monitoring, structural materials, and smart materials. He has brought several technologies from concepts to products. He has authored or coauthored more than 100 papers in refereed journals and refereed conference proceedings, and one coedited book. He holds five U.S. patents.

Dr. Xiao received the 2014 Technical Award from the IEEE Instrumentation and Measurement Society. He is an IEEE Fellow, and a principle research officer of the National Research Council Canada. He is currently the editor- in-chief of IEEE JOURNAL OF RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (RFID) and an associate editor-in-chief of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT.

Yuefeng Ruan received the Ph.D. degree in agricul- ture (plant nutrition) from the Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany, in 2007.

He is currently a Senior Research Scientist andDu- rum Wheat Breeder with the Swift Current Research and Development Centre, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Swift Current, SK, Canada. His research and breeding program develops new high-quality and high-yielding durumwheat cultivarswithwide adapt- ability and improved profitability. He has registered nine durum wheat cultivars including the first Inter- mediate Fusarium Head Blight resistance cultivar, and the first wheat midge and wheat stem sawfly insect resistance cultivar in Canada. He has authored or coauthored hundreds of miscellaneous publications in wheat breeding and research. As an active member in numerous Government and non-Government committees inCanada andworldwide, he provides the leadership in durumwheat research and development.

Jatinder S. Sangha received the Ph.D. degree in plant science from the University of the Philippines, Los Baños, Philippines, and the International Rice Research Institute, Los Baños, in 2006.

He is currently a Research Scientist with the Swift Current Research and Development Centre, Agri- culture and Agri-Food Canada, Swift Current, SK, Canada. His research statements are developing a top-rankedwheat physiology lab for fundamental and applied research for improving cereal quality and yield through efficient phenotyping and physiological understanding of traits contributing to crop performance in diverse environments (photosynthetic efficiency, C–N partitioning to seed, and stress tolerance).

Authorized licensed use limited to: FUDAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on August 28,2025 at 01:49:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.