HARKIN et al.: FIELD-TO-FIELD COORDINATE-BASED SEGMENTATION ALGORITHM

Fig. 9. Algorithm false negative. (a) Mower job site coordinate measurement plot showing that the operator does not loop the field perimeter. (b) As a result, the matplotlib fill polygon function does not form a filled polygon of coordinate data. The field object is instead indented with background regions. (c) Field object is segmented into small foreground regions post erosion and dilation operation, Stage II. The detected field boundaries areas are too small and the result is a false negative.

Fig. 10. Algorithm false positive. (a) Mower job site coordinate measurement plot showing that the operator does not loop the outside field perimeter. (b) Two field objects are created post erosion and dilation operation, Stage II. (c) Algorithm detects two field boundaries.

The histogram plots compare field efficiency calculations for four job sites presegmentation, to the individual fields post- segmentation. Epochs were defined by extracting timestamps from the labeled fields coordinates output by the algorithm. The algorithm described in Moreira et al. [45] was then applied to obtain the area of the conjoined fields and of the segmented fields. Baler and mower operation variables were then averaged over area to examine field output and machinery performance. Each histogram measures: Area measured in hectares, bales per hectare (BPH), time per hectare (TPH)measured inminutes, and fuel per hectare (FPH)measured in litres. (1 hectare is equivalent to 10 000 square meters). The blue bars represent the original conjoined field data and the orange, green, and red bars represent each segmented field’s data.

Fig. 11(a) and (b) illustrates baler field efficiency analysis plots for job sites 39 and 119. The plots show that by segmenting sites into individual fields, a finer resolution of analysis is achieved highlighting that the number of bales produced is proportional to the fuel and time consumed. For example, in the field 1 of site 39, bales are made at a rate of 27 BPH, while in field 2, the machine produced 22 BPH. The differences productivity here may be due to crop quality or fertilizer applied in the field, etc.

In terms of the mower, Fig. 11(c) and (d) presents analysis for sites 75 and 135. In general, these graphs show less variability between field splits. This can be explained by mower operation which generally runs into fewer stoppages and does not require in-field changes of consumables, which frequently occur in combi-baling.

The histogram plots presented showcase the advantages of using the proposed algorithm.Theplots can be used to inform the machinery operator and farmer which fields had higher yields; took more time; consumed more fuel. The land owner can also utilize this information to for example better prepare for the next harvest.

V. CONCLUSION

This article presents a field-to-field coordinate-based segmen- tation algorithm to delineate implement associated agricultural machinery trajectory data into farmland geometric boundaries. The algorithm was evaluated on two unique georeferenced time series implement datasets, containing a mixture of 296 road-to- field and 31 field-to-field segmentation cases. All measurements were obtained bymonitoring amachinery contractor throughout the 2020 grass silage harvesting season.The results show that the proposed algorithm registers an accuracy of 100% and 98.84% on a baler and mower datasets, respectively. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, examples of field-to-field conditions solved in this article have not been addressed in the current

101