IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 1, MARCH/APRIL 2024

Fig. 11. Baler and mower field efficiency histogram plots. Each histogram compares statistics based on the overall job site (conjoined fields) versus statistics based on the individual, segmented fields. The plots indicate that by segmenting machinery coordinate and sensor data from a conjoined site into individual fields, differences in productivity and inputs consumption across fields can be identified. (a) Baler site 39 field analysis. (b) Baler site 119 field analysis. (c) Mower site 75 field analysis. (d) Mower site 135 field analysis.

coordinate-based field segmentation literature. Within the liter- ature, remote sensing methods offer similar delineation metrics, however, these techniques are neither cost-effective or accessible to farmers with small holdings. Coordinate-based solutions, like the one presented in this article, offer a practical solution to field boundary mapping on account of the technology and the cost of the equipment used; a negligible expense when compared to the price of implements or tractors.

The impact of this article is a novel coordinate-based solution, requiring only GNSS data and a machinery implement switch sensor, to provide a robust and accurate technique to boundary delineation of a field; without the use of machine learning methods. Future work will include testing this algorithm on data obtained from additional agricultural vehicle trajectory datasets, with a larger variety of implements and self-propelled machin- ery. Further performance-based analysis may be conducted, to investigate the unscheduled stoppages within segmented sites.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

The authors would like to thank the following people who supported this work: 1) Dr. D. Mullins; 2) LERO; 3) M. Hanley; 4) Technical Staff at McHale Engineering.

REFERENCES

[1] “The Land Parcel Identification System A useful tool to determine the eligibility of agricultural land–but its management could be fur- ther improved,” Eur. Court Auditors, no. 25, 2016. Accessed: Feb. 9, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ TXT/?uri=CELEX:52016SA0025(01)

[2] European Commission, “Common agricultural policy—European Com- mission,” Accessed: Feb. 9, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://ec.europa. eu/info/food-farming-fisheries/key-policies/common-agricultural- policy_en