IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 1, MARCH/APRIL 2024

Field-to-Field Coordinate-Based Segmentation

Algorithm on Agricultural Harvest Implements

Sean J. Harkin , Tomás Crotty , John Warren , Conor Shanahan , Edward Jones , Senior Member, IEEE, Martin Glavin , Member, IEEE, and Dallan Byrne

Abstract—Establishing and maintaining farmland geometric boundaries is crucial to increasing agricultural productivity. Ac- curate field boundaries enable farm machinery contractors and other farm stakeholders to calculate charges, costs and to examine machineryperformance.Field segmentation is theprocessbywhich agricultural field plots are geofenced into their individual field ge- ometric boundaries. This paper presents a novel coordinate-based method to perform trajectory segmentation and field boundary detection from a tractor towing an implement. The main contri- bution of this research is a practical, robust algorithm which can solve for challenging field-to-field segmentation cases where the operator engages the towed implement continuously across several fields. The algorithm first isolates raw machinery trajectory data into unique job sites by using a coarse filter on geolocation data and implement power-take off activation. Next, the coordinate data is plotted and image processing techniques are applied to erode any pathway(s) that may present in job sites with adjacent working fields. Georeferenced time series tractor and implement data were aggregated from a five-month-long measurement campaign of a silage baling season in Galway, Ireland. The algorithm was val- idated against two unique machinery implement datasets, which combined, contain a mixture of 296 road-to-field and 31 field-to- field cases. The results demonstrate that the algorithm achieves an accuracy of 100% on a baler implement dataset and 98.84% on a mower implement dataset. The proposed algorithmis deterministic and does not require any additional labor, land traversal or aerial surveillance to produce results with accuracy metrics registering above 98%.

Index Terms—Agricultural machinery trajectory data, agricultural parcel delineation, field efficiency analysis, field segmentation, global navigation satellite system (GNSS), global positioning system (GPS), towed implement machinery.

I. INTRODUCTION

IELD boundary delineation is a necessary component ofmodernizing agricultural systems. In the European Union

Manuscript received 14 July 2023; revised 13 September 2023 and 22Decem- ber 2023; accepted 1 January 2024. Date of publication 28 February 2024; date of current version 11 April 2024. This work was supported in part by LERO, in part by McHale Engineering under the SFI Grant 13/RC/2094_P2, and in part by the Enterprise Ireland Marie Skłodowska-Curie Career-FIT Fellowship under GrantMF-2018-0202. This article was recommended by Associate Editor S. Abd Aziz. (Corresponding author: Sean J. Harkin.)

Sean J. Harkin, Tomás Crotty, Edward Jones, Martin Glavin, and Dal- lan Byrne are with the Electrical and Electronic Engineering, School of Engineering, University of Galway, H91 TK33 Galway, Ireland (e- mail: s.harkin5@universityofgalway.ie; t.crotty2@universityofgalway.ie; ed- ward.jones@universityofgalway.ie; martin.glavin@universityofgalway.ie; dal- lan.byrne@universityofgalway.ie).

John Warren and Conor Shanahan are with McHale Engineering, F31 K138 Ballinrobe, Ireland (e-mail: jwarren@mchale.net; cshanahan@mchale.net). Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TAFE.2024.3352480

(EU), for example, all member states are signed up to a land parcel identification system (LPIS) database to record agricul- tural parcels [1]. An agricultural parcel is defined as a con- tinuous area of land enclosed by a boundary that includes no more than one crop group [1]. The LPIS database is used as an administrative tool to aid in setting environmental policies and inform subsidy management bodies such as the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) [2]. Field boundary databases, like LPIS, must be maintained to preserve their quality over time to ensure the correct distribution of annual agricultural subsidies to farmers [3]. Currently, there are three main regulatory paths to updatemodels. 1) Farmers correct preprinted forms. 2) Farmland site visits (which are precise, but scale with cost). 3) Systematic updates by service providers to the state, e.g., remote sensing [3]. However, day-to-day changes in the landscape, misdeclaration of boundary areas, or obsolete orthophotos make an exact match for registered land boundaries to actual up-to-date field bound- aries difficult to achieve [3].

A significant proportion of precision agriculture (PA) sys- tems, designed for farmland and crop management, depend on accurately maintained geofences to function [4]. These systems require that farm input data be segmented, to at least field level, as prior knowledge for information management [5] and data processing [6]. Commercial field boundary delineation services are available to farm stakeholders [7], [8]. These services gener- ally use field boundary databases derived from satellite imagery. Alternatively, they require that customers upload geodata (such as. gis files) or delineate the field boundaries manually, using a sketching software tool.

Field boundaries may be integrated with machinery data for insight on crop and machine performance. Platforms such as ISOBlue 2.0 [9] and Cropinfra [10] provide methods to combine global navigation satellite system (GNSS) data with captured controller area network (CAN) data. Commercial op- erators may also provide their own in-house machinery tracking solution [11]. This facilitates access to spatio-temporal data in which the entire positional history (spatial locations with timestamps) of the moving object is recorded [12]. The spatio- temporal path of an object is also known as its trajectory. To analyze an object’s trajectory, the trajectory data must be input as a structured recording of movement [13]. Trajectory analysis opportunities in agricultural machinery include obtain- ing detailed information on machinery performance, settings and errors [14]. Field efficiency for an episode of work [15], [16], or activity at specific points within a field [17] can also be determined when accurate field geometric boundaries are delineated.

© 2024 The Authors. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

91