IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 1, MARCH/APRIL 2024

Fig. 3. Algorithm Stage II Path Removal, described in Section III-C shown as a visual. Steps are labeled alphabetically. The goal of this stage is to erode pixels representing the off-road connecting pathways between conjoined fields and isolate field geometric boundaries. (a) Sampled Coordinate Plot Image: Filled polygon of the job site coordinate data. Foreground pixels represent field objects. (b) Flood Fill: Holes inside the field objects are eliminated. Fig. 5 presents a detailed version of this step. (c) Erosion and Dilation: The erosion operation removes the pathway pixels segmenting the field objects. A dilation operation is then applied to restore field object boundary pixels that were eroded. The individual field objects are now isolated. (d) Find Field Contours: Field object pixel boundaries are detected and labeled. (e) Label Coordinate Data: Detected boundary pixels are converted to Cartesian and overlayed onto the original job site data.

in job sites output from Stage I. This is achieved by applying a series of morphological image operations to a sampled image of the coordinate data.

a) Sampled Coordinate Plot Image: The coordinate data of a site, output fromStage I, is sampled to create a binary, coordinate plot image as illustrated in Fig. 3(a). First, the GNSS data is mapped to a Cartesian plane using a coordinate reference system (CRS) transformation python library [58], specifically from latitude and longitude CRS ESPG:4326 to Cartesian CRS EPSG:27700. Coordinate data where the vehicle is not moving