IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 1, MARCH/APRIL 2024

Software Architecture for Agricultural Robots:

Systems, Requirements, Challenges, Case Studies,

and Future Perspectives

Rekha Raja

Abstract—Designing software architectures for autonomous robots for agricultural contexts is a demanding anddifficult job due to the requirement to monitor numerous sensors and actuators, as well as autonomous decision-making in unpredictable, unexpected scenarios. Depending on the essential requirements of a robotic device for agricultural usage, robot software architecture is created differently. Since no single software architecture exists for all appli- cations, extensive knowledge of the various software architectures for robots is needed when creating your own robotic architecture or selecting one from a number of existing architectures. As a result, this article provides a comprehensive history of software architecture and its application in the agricultural domain along with a chronology of how software design has evolved over time. We provide several case studies to understand the importance of application of software architecture in agriculture and food indus- try and how to choose the best architecture for agricultural tasks. Finally, this article discusses the open obstacles and difficulties that must be addressed in order to ensure more advancements in the development of robot architecture for agricultural applications.

Index Terms—Agricultural robot, food processing, food packaging, harvesting robot, robot programming, software architecture.

I. INTRODUCTION

EVERY day, robots become more self-sufficient. Applica-tions

of robotics are no longer limited to industry; they are increasingly spreading into new areas, such as home care, military operations, and rescue operations ([1]), driverless cars on roads, drones for inspection operations, underwater robots, robots for harvesting vegetables or fruits to space exploration. The agricultural sector, for example, has a huge demand for robots, which is expected to rise from USD 4.6 billion in 2020 toUSD20.3 billion by 2025 ([2]). The agricultural robotsmarket is also growing due to a decline in the number of young farmers entering the agricultural sector and an increase in laborminimum wages [3]. Farmers are eagerly seeking a solution to this issue, with autonomous robots being one of the possibilities.

Manuscript received25September 2023; revised20December 2023; accepted 4 February 2024. Date of publication 5 March 2024; date of current version 11 April 2024. This article was recommended by Associate Editor D. Brunelli.

The author is with the Donders Centre for Cognition, Department of Artificial Intelligence, Radboud University, 6525 Nijmegen, The Netherlands (e-mail: rekha.raja@donders.ru.nl, rekha.cob@gmail.com).

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TAFE.2024.3366335

To construct autonomous robots that can be used in agricul- tural environments for a variety of tasks, such as harvest man- agement (crops, vegetables, or fruits), field farming, crop man- agement, higher levels of sophistication in perception, complex planning capacity, effective control mechanisms, and increased learning capability, are needed to adapt new environments with daunting challenges for the future. As a result, a thorough understanding of autonomous systems, their behavior, and the overall architecture of the system must be realized, and this remains an important research subject.

One of our research objectives is to devise a methodology for programming that seamlessly integrates complexhigh-tech tasks and to provide developers with appropriate models to develop their individual software modules which will be part of the large system integration so that the code can be reusable and extendable. It is crystal clear that to design a robot architecture that involves complex functionality is required a great effort to work the whole system smoothly. However, due to the nonavail- ability of uniform standards in robotics, there is no commonly accepted robot architecture, especially for AI applications ([4]). This has led to researchers being forced to develop their own robotic software architectures. For that purpose, there exists a large variety of robotic architecture. There are still scarce contributions regarding the global state of the art of different robot architectures suitable for agricultural applications. As the agricultural industry increasingly adopts automation and robotics to address its unique challenges, selecting the right software architectural pattern becomes a crucial decision that can significantly impact the success of projects.

This research article dives into the most popular software ar- chitectural patterns specifically tailored for agricultural robotics, exploring their benefits, drawbacks, selection criteria, and envi- sioning future perspectives. By critically analyzing the strengths andweaknesses of each pattern, we aim to guide researchers and practitioners in making informed decisions when selecting the most suitable architectural pattern for their agricultural robotics applications. Through real-world case studies and scenario- based discussions, we highlighted the architectural patterns that align with the unique requirements and challenges encountered in tasks, such as harvesting, food processing, and packaging.We summarize the contribution of this article as follows.

1) It provides a comprehensive exploration of various soft- ware architectural patterns and their applicability in the

2771-9529 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.

See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: FUDAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on August 28,2025 at 01:50:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

125