IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 2, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2024

Monitoring Iron Stress in Tomato Plants Through Bioimpedance and Machine-Learning-Enhanced Classification Based on Circuit Component Analysis

Antonio Altana , Saleh Hamed, Paolo Lugli , Fellow, IEEE, Luisa Petti , Senior Member, IEEE, and Pietro Ibba , Member, IEEE

Abstract—Insufficient availability of essential nutrients, such as iron, can impedeplant growth, decrease cropproductivity, and even lead to plant death. This is why it is crucial to employ proximal monitoring techniques to detect early signs of nutrient stress and prevent yield loss. In this study, we continuously monitored the stem impedance of eight tomato plants every hour for 38 days. This was done to observe the effects of iron stress by comparing these plantswith those not under stress. The normalized impedance magnitude at 10 kHz reveals a noticeable divergence in the trend of impedance magnitude shortly after the removal of iron from the nutrient solution, clearly indicating the effect of iron stress on plant bioimpedance. Additionally, the Cole equivalent circuit model was employed to evaluate the electrical parameters of the impedance spectra. The fitting results exhibit an average root-mean-square error of 466.3 Ω. Statistical analysis of the extracted circuit pa- rameters shows significant differences between iron-stressed and control plants. Based on this hypothesis, the extracted circuit components have been used to train the machine learning clas- sification model with several algorithms, to demonstrate that the multilayer perceptron is the best performing model, yielding 98% accuracy and 91% and 89% precision in identifying early and late stress, respectively. This research demonstrates the effectiveness of bioimpedance measurements in tracking iron stress in plants. Our findings highlight the usefulness of impedance measurements for monitoring iron stress in plants and provide insights into the physiological responses of tomato plants to nutrient deprivation by observing changes in bioimpedance circuit parameters over time.

Manuscript received 16 January 2024; revised 15 May 2024; accepted 30 May 2024. Date of publication 17 June 2024; date of current version 10 October 2024. This work was supported in part by the Open Access Publishing Fund of the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, in part by the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT), and in part by the European Union Next-GenerationEU (Piano Nazionale di Ripresa e Resilienza (PNRR)—Missione 4 Componente 2, Inves- timento 1.5—D.D. 1032) under Grant CN00000022 for carrying out research at the Agritech National Research Center. This article was recommended by Associate Editor Matias Miguez. An earlier version of this paper was presented in part at the 2023 IEEE Conference on AgriFood Electronics (CAFE). [DOI: 10.1109/CAFE58535.2023.10292001]. (Antonio Altana and Saleh Hamed con- tributed equally to this work.) (Corresponding author: Pietro Ibba.)

AntonioAltana and Paolo Lugli arewith the Faculty of Engineering, FreeUni- versity of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy, and also with the Competence Centre forMountain InnovationEcosystems, FreeUniversity ofBozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy.

Saleh Hamed and Pietro Ibba are with the Faculty of Engineering, Free Uni- versity of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy (e-mail: Pietro.Ibba@unibz.it). Luisa Petti is with the Faculty of Engineering, Free University of Bozen- Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy, and also with the Competence Centre for Plant Health, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy.

This article has supplementary downloadable material available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TAFE.2024.3411269, provided by the authors.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TAFE.2024.3411269

Index Terms—Electrical impedance spectroscopy, neural network, nutrient deficiency, smart agriculture.

I. INTRODUCTION

(Solanum lycopersicum) is a globally importantcrop, TOMATO boasting a production surpassing 170 million tons, as reported by the Food and Agriculture Organization. Around 40% of harvested tomatoes are utilized in food processing, with Italy playing a major role in this industry [1]. Being a model organism, tomato plants are highly regarded in the scientific community for their well-known advantageous traits. These in- clude a compact, fully sequenced genome, a relatively short life cycle with straightforward cultivationmethods, the feasibility of horticultural interventions, as well as the availability of a wide range of mutant lines, advanced genomics tools, and established protocols for conducting controlled environmental experiments with tomato plants [2].

Tomato plants are continuously interacting with their sur- rounding environment, which has both positive and negative influences, contributing to the plant stress with a wide spectrum of abiotic and biotic stressors. Here, one of the main causes of stress is nutrient starvation, to which the plants respond with a series of well-studied physiological changes such as reduced photosynthetic activity and inadequate chlorophyll production leading to a clear impact on leaf greenness [3]. Among the most important nutrients for the plants correct physiological functioning, iron (Fe) plays an important role. In fact, despite its abundance in the soil, it results in an already low availability for the plant due to its low solubility [4]. Iron is, indeed, an essential micronutrient for plants contributing to several vital processes, including chlorophyll development and function. When plants lack sufficient iron, they experience reduced photosynthetic activity, resulting in yellowing and interveinal chlorosis in young leaves [5], leading to yield losses of up to 30% [6]. Such visible symptoms typically manifest several days or weeks after iron deprivation begins, varyingwith crop species, but typicallywhen the plant is already in a late stress stage [5]. For this reason, tools allowing a precise characterization of the plant nutrient levels and needs assume a crucial importance to early detect any stress and allow thus a timely intervention thereby leading to higher yields. In this context, different proximal monitoring methods have been described in the literature [7],with increasing

© 2024 The Authors. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/