IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 2, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2024

adjusted based on the size and type of the sample, assuring a constant air gap between the plates in both setups. The presence of a fruit specimen in themiddle of the plates forms a three-layer dielectric capacitor due to sample and air gaps. According to the rules of a capacitor with a multilayer dielectric, since the air gap is the same in both setups, the capacitance value varies due to different samples with varying heights and dielectric constants, despite the air gap being the same in both cases [18].

A. Setup 1

To obtain a more comprehensive analysis, the first setup of the experiment is conducted using two different approaches. A preliminary experiment is carried out with a banana and a bar of soap to validate the setup in the frequency range 5–200 kHz, as suggested by previous studies [19], [20]. The measurements were performed over 75 logarithmically spaced frequency points in the two-electrode configuration. The soap, with its stable dielectric constant of 3.5 [21] and its resistance to aging effects, served as a reference. In this case, based on the average size of the samples and the height of the stage, the plates were distanced by 74.15 mm, to guarantee that the sample was placed in the center. Here, the aging effect of the biological sample was studied so that after placing a sample between two plates the simultaneous measurements of internal temperature and capacitance were carried out consistently every hour for seven days.

In this part, the influence of temperature on capacitance measurements was carefully investigated to minimize errors. By assessing and reducing the influence of ambient temperature on the collected data, this compensation approach improves the accuracy of the measurements. Analyzing the impedance response provided valuable insights into the system’s electrical properties and behavior. For analyzing the collecting data out of the total 168 h of capacitive data gathered over seven days, the initial 6 h were excluded due to significant temperature fluctuations. The remaining 162 h were normalized based on the reference temperature (Tref) measured in the 1 h. Out of the total 162 h, the initial 18 h were used to calculate linear fitting coefficients for each frequency, resulting in 75 fittings. The calculated coefficients were applied to the remaining 144 data points (six days) to yield compensated capacitive data. By employing the following formula, the normalized and fitted capacitive (compensated) data was calculated

Fig. 2. (a) Variation of normalizedCs of a banana fruit over seven days of the experiment at selected frequencies (5–200 kHz). The schematic of equivalent circuits used to extract the Cs value is shown in the inset on the bottom-left sides. (b) Variation of rawCs data (left y-axis) and measured temperature (right y-axis) over 24 h of banana. The inset on the up-left side shows the linear fit of the initial 18 h used to calculate linear fitting coefficients for each frequency. (c) Comparing the normalized and fitted Cs and normalized Cs over six days.

$$
C_{\textrm{compensated}}=C_{\textrm{measured}}+[p_{1}\times(T_{\textrm{ref}}-T_{\textrm{measured}})]
$$

Ccompensated = Cmeasured + [p1 × (Tref − Tmeasured)] (1) ◦C where Tmeasured is the observed temperature in for 144 capac- itive data points and p1 is the slope of the linear fit, as illustrated in the inset of Fig. 2(b). In this equation, to avoid the negative values in the normalized data, the intercept is neglected due to the exclusion of zero time. In this study, the series capacitance (Cs) and resistance (Rs) were considered to represent the electrical characteristics of the system, as both the parallel and series equivalent circuits yielded similar results, Fig. 2(a) and Fig. S2 of the Supplementary Material, respectively.

The second approach involvedmeasurements of three bananas under the same setup and frequency range over four days. This part of the study focused on the relationship between mass loss and capacitance in addition to the aging effect. The experiment is performed simultaneously with the presence and absence of bananas as a strategy to remove the role of temperature on the overall result without performing the compensation, considering the baseline results as a reference. To investigate the impact of mass loss on capacitance, the mass of the samples is mea- sured daily before each capacitive measurement. As with the prior configuration, for consistent comparison, both the series capacitance (Cs) and resistance (Rs) are assessed to characterize the electrical properties of the system. Importantly, the results from each approachwere analyzed separately, ensuring that they are distinct and reliable. Despite using different methods, the findings are consistently aligned, demonstrating the robustness of the experimental procedures.