MASOUMI et al.: CAPACITIVE IMPEDANCE ANALYSIS FOR NONCONTACT ASSESSMENT OF FRUIT QUALITY AND RIPENING

Fig. 5. (a) Cs value of for 51 nectarines for frequency 1 MHz. The x-axis represents four different conditions: before the mechanical damage, 0, 1, and 24 h after the mechanical damage. The y-axis represents the Cs value for each condition. An ANOVA test was conducted, revealing significant differences denoted by the letters “a” and “b” for the respective parameters. The marker (“+”) represents outlier values. (b) Raw Cs data versus temperature of four different conditions: Before damage (blue, ◦), 0 h (red, ∗), 1 h (green, ), and 24 h (magenta, ) for frequency 1 MHz.

ANOVA test is performed for all frequencies to compare four conditions of nectarine, to evaluate the possibility of using such a capacitive approach to discriminate between damaged and undamaged fruit. Here, mean values with common letters are statistically similar, while values with no common letters are significantly different. A closer look at the ANOVA results for different frequencies in Table S1 of the Supplementary Material reveals that for low frequencies, there is no differentiation be- tween the group’s mean.While for mid- and high frequencies, it is more distinguishable. Consequently, for plotting Fig. 5(a), a frequency of 1MHz is considered since it has the lowest p-value Table S1 of the Supplementary Material.

Fig. 5(a) demonstrates that the setup effectively discriminates between the undamaged samples and samples observed 24 h after damage for a given frequency. Temperature variations and their impact on measurement results at a single frequency were systematically evaluated. Measurements for the initial three conditions (namely, before the damage, immediately after, and 1 h postdamage) were conducted within a temperature range of [23.96–26.35], [24.45–26.95], and [25.05–27.06] ◦C, respec- tively, mirroring the environment temperature in the laboratory. Similarly, for the condition of 24 h postdamage, the temperature variation remained within the [25.23–26.65] ◦C range.

Our findings in Fig. 5(b) suggest that the patterns of cell behavior and capacitance changes are influenced by temperature fluctuations. The capacitance value for each of the conditions, before impact, 0, 1, and 24 h, is randomly distributed over an almost similar temperature range as the other conditions. How- ever, the measurements taken 24 h after damage are partially distinct from those of the other three conditions, despite a similar temperature variation. This suggests that the system can discrim- inate between the original three circumstances and the state that exists 24 h after damage, suggesting an influence beyond the temperature effect. Biologically, several factors could be respon- sible for this distinction, such as cellular repair processes [44], response to the damage may continue to evolve after a few hours [45], which leads to visible changes in the behavior and capacitance of the cell after 24 h. In addition, cellular remodeling, gene expression alterations, or variations in membrane integrity could contribute to the observed differ- ences [46]. Considering these factors is crucial for understand- ing the complex connection between temperature, cellular re- sponses, and the lasting impact of damage.

It is important to consider that the development of mechanical damage depends on various factors, including impact energy, the number of impacts, and fruit morphology, such as the shape and size of the sample, as well as factors like maturity and texture [47], [48]. Consequently, the response of different fruits to the damage could vary, influencing the measurement and subsequent results. Also, it is important to consider that, beyond the direct impact of damage, aging itself introduces additional intrinsic effects on the measurements [49].

To compare this workwith similar state-of-the-art techniques, parameters were extracted from the literature and are presented in Table I. This study demonstrates a comparable frequency range, VP−P , and plate size to analogous instruments in the literature. Capacitive measurement, reliant on factors, such as applied voltage, is directly proportional to the amplitude of the applied ac voltage. Increasing the voltage amplitude enhances sensitivity, enabling the detection of small variations in dielectric properties like fruit quality or moisture content. Except for [50] and [51], where the applied voltage is unspecified, all other works exhibit similar voltagemagnitudes.Notably,O’Toole [17] employed higher voltages due tomagnetic field utilization. Tem- perature can significantly affect data, necessitating controlled temperature measurements. Similar to the work in [17], this work considers temperature effects, highlighting the importance of temperature in data analysis. Plate size directly influences capacitance, with larger plates offering greater sensitivity and resolution. This study employs sufficiently large plates com- pared to relevant literature, to ensure reliable results. In addition, larger plates can cover the entire sample, although this may complicate measurements. In some studies [14], [17], [51], the volume of the sample is estimated, but in this work, to reduce the number of variables in the measurement, the sample is placed between the plates so that only the middle part of the fruit is cov- ered.Regarding frequency, both single-frequencymeasurements and frequency sweeps can impact the information obtained and

433