IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 2, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2024

Capacitive Impedance Analysis for Noncontact Assessment of Fruit Quality and Ripening

Fahimeh Masoumi , Andrea Gottardo, Pietro Ibba , Member, IEEE, Matteo Caffini , Antonio Altana , Sundus Riaz , Luisa Petti , Senior Member, IEEE, and Paolo Lugli , Fellow, IEEE

Abstract—This article presents a comprehensive examination of the development of a non-contact measuring technique for deter- mining fruit quality. Capacitance measurements were performed on soap (reference), banana, and nectarine samples across a fre- quency range of 5 Hz–200 kHz for banana and soap, and 10 Hz–1 MHz for nectarine. The data analysis revealed consistent trends in series capacitance (Cs), indicating its suitability for future inves- tigation. Additionally, temperature compensation improved data accuracy. Compensated capacitance data, obtained through linear fitting coefficients from the first 18 hours of data, showed distinct trends in banana samples, with a reduction of 6.76% on the first day and an additional 3.38% on the last day, illustrating the impact of aging. In contrast, the soap reference sample exhibited constant capacitance behavior over time. The response of the system to the presence and absence of the fruit sample and the effect of mass loss of the banana fruit on the Cs trends were also examined. The system’s capacity to differentiate between undamaged and damaged samples was demonstrated after the investigation was ex- panded to include 51 nectarines. Following the impact damage,Cs significantly increased, particularly one hour later, aligning with biochemical changes associated withmechanical damage. ANOVA, a type of multivariate analysis, highlighted the system’s efficacy. The system demonstrated preserved damage detection even 24 hours after impact, despite temperature variations. This study pro- vides valuable insights into non-contact measurement methods for potential industrial use, considering the effect of temperature and sample-specific analysis in the accurate evaluation of fruit quality.

Manuscript received 13 February 2024; revised 22 April 2024 and 26 May 2024; accepted 26 May 2024. Date of publication 24 June 2024; date of current version 10October 2024. This workwas supported in part by the Free University ofBozen-Bolzano, in part by theEuropeanUnion - ERDForESF, in part by PON Research and Innovation 2014–2020, in part by theMicrotec S.R.L for providing the laboratory equipment and financial support for this research, and in part by theOpenAccess Publishing Fund of the FreeUniversity of Bozen-Bolzano. This article was recommended by Editor-in-Chief Danilo Demarchi. (Corresponding authors: Fahimeh Masoumi; Pietro Ibba.)

Fahimeh Masoumi and Sundus Riaz are with the Faculty of Agricultural, Environmental, and Food Sciences, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy, and also with the Faculty of Engineering, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy (e-mail: Fahimeh.masoumi@student. unibz.it).

Andrea Gottardo and Matteo Caffini are with the Microtec/Biometic S.R.L, 39042 Bressanone, Italy.

Pietro Ibba is with the Faculty of Engineering, Free University of Bozen- Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy (e-mail: Pietro.ibba@unibz.it).

AntonioAltana and Paolo Lugli arewith the Faculty of Engineering, FreeUni- versity of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy, and also with the Competence Centre forMountain InnovationEcosystems, FreeUniversity ofBozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy.

Luisa Petti is with the Faculty of Engineering, Free University of Bozen- Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy, and also with the Competence Centre for Plant Health, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 Bolzano, Italy.

This article has supplementary downloadable material available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TAFE.2024.3406848, provided by the authors.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TAFE.2024.3406848

Index Terms—Aging, banana, bioimpedance, capacitance, fruit quality, mass loss, mechanical damage, nectarine, nondestructive techniques, temperature compensation.

I. INTRODUCTION

quality is one of the most important aspects to beconsidered FOOD to protect human health. Among the various food items to be inspected, fruits play a key role. Furthermore, the reduction of fruit waste through its correct quality evaluation is especially relevant in the agri-food industry to reduce finan- cial loss [1] and to improve food security and sustainability. Fruit sorting methods taking into consideration both internal and external qualities and flaws are essential throughout all postharvesting stages. In this context, significant challenges arise from mishandling, freezing, and transportation-related damages [2], [3]. To address this, the industry employs sorting techniques to identify unsuitable fruits for market or storage. To date, accurate determination of fruit quality is based on both destructive and nondestructive methods. While destructive methods typically require long times and are not appropriate for large-scale measurements, nondestructive procedures provide instantaneous outcomes and are more desirable.

Nondestructive quality detection technologies for postharvest products can utilize optical and electrical properties. Optical techniques, such as colorimetry [4], imaging [5], and spec- troscopy, provide insights into the internal structure of fruit through interaction with light. Alternatively, the interaction of an electric field with the fruit presents a new approach to the measurement of fruit quality. Electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), also called bioimpedance, allows measuring the passive electrical properties of a sample in response to an applied electro- magnetic field [6].While both approaches offer fast and efficient measurements, bioimpedance represents a low-cost and promis- ing approach compared to conventional optical methods. Such impedance measurement techniques can be classified as con- tact and noncontact. Extensive research has been conducted on non-destructive contact methods for fruits, such as bananas [7], apples [8], [9], strawberries [10], and mangoes [11]. However, with the increasing demand for real-time fruit quality detection in industrial settings, the development of fast, nondestructive, and noncontact detection systems has become crucial [12].

While EIS is typically measured using electrodes in direct contact with the device under test (DUT), capacitive noncontact measurements can also be performed. In this approach, elec- trodes are not connected to the sample; instead, the changes

© 2024 The Authors. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/