IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 2, NO. 2, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2024

[29] F. Ma, Y. Yin, and M. Li, “Start-up process modelling of sediment mi- crobial fuel cells based on data driven,” Math. Problems Eng., vol. 2019, pp. 1–10, Jan. 2019.

[30] A. C. Sophia and S. Sreeja, “Green energy generation from plant microbial fuel cells (PMFC) using compost and a novel clay separator,” Sustain.

Energy Technol. Assessments, vol. 21, pp. 59–66, 2017.

[31] P. J. Sarma and K.Mohanty, “A novel three-chamber modular PMFCwith bentonite/flyash based clay membrane and oxygen reducing biocathode for long term sustainable bioelectricity generation,” Bioelectrochemistry, vol. 144, 2022, Art. no. 107996.

[32] P.Si et al., “Enhanceddegradationofmetronidazole by the couplingof pho- tocatalytic and microbial fuel cell: Mechanism and electrochemistry char- acteristic,” J. Environ. Chem. Eng., vol. 11, no. 3, 2023, Art. no. 109707.

[33] A. R. P. Hidayat et al., “Recent development of double chamber microbial fuel cell for hexavalent chromiumwaste removal,” J. Environ. Chem. Eng., vol. 10, no. 3, 2022, Art. no. 107505.

[34] N.Ueoka,N.Sese,M.Sue,A.Kouzuma, andK.Watanabe, “Sizes of anode and cathode affect electricity generation in rice paddy-field microbial fuel cells,” J. Sustain. Bioenergy Syst., vol. 6, pp. 10–15, Jan. 2016.

[35] L. Schulthess, P. Mayer, andM.Magno, “Poster abstract: Battery-free and passive wake-up receiver for underwater communication,” in Proc. 8th ACM/IEEE Conf. Internet Things Des. Implementation, New York, NY, USA, 2023, pp. 479–480.

[36] H. Bello, Z. Xiaoping, R. Nordin, and J. Xin, “Advances and opportunities in passive wake-up radios with wireless energy harvesting for the Internet of Things applications,” Sensors, vol. 19, no. 14, 2019, Art. no. 3078.

[37] N. Rohaizad, C. C. Mayorga-Martinez, F. Novotný, R. D. Webster, and M. Pumera, “3D-printed AG/AGCL pseudo-reference electrodes,” Elec- trochemistry Commun., vol. 103, pp. 104–108, 2019.

[38] P. N. Prasad and S. Kalla, “Plant-microbial fuel cells - A bibliometric analysis,” Process Biochem., vol. 111, pp. 250–260, 2021.

[39] Z. He and F. Mansfeld, “Exploring the use of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) in microbial fuel cell studies,” Energy Environ. Sci., vol. 2, pp. 215–219, 2009.

Maria Doglioni (Student Member, IEEE) received the master’s degree in electronics and robotics engi- neering in 2022 from theUniversity of Trento, Trento, Italy, where she is currentlyworking toward the Ph.D. degree in ultralow power circuit design and energy harvesting sources.

Her research interests include energy harvesting and ultralow power embedded systems, with a par- ticular focus on conditioning electronics for plant microbial fuel cells.

Matteo Nardello (Member, IEEE) received the M.S. degree in electronics and telecommunications engi- neering and the Ph.D. degree inmaterials, mechatron- ics, and systems engineering from the University of Trento, Trento, Italy, in 2016 and 2020, respectively. He is currently a Research Fellow at the Depart- ment of Industrial Engineering, University of Trento. His research interests include investigating machine learning techniques applied to resource-constrained embedded platforms (TinyML), with a special focus on autonomous smart IoT devices, evaluating printed electronics solutions and applications, and studying new architectures for indoor localization services. His other research interests encompass modeling and hardware-software codesign of original solutions to reduce power requirements of distributed wireless sensor networks.

Dr. Nardello has served as Program Chair and Publication Chair at various ACM/IEEE conferences. He is a Member of ACM.

DavideBrunelli (SeniorMember, IEEE) received the M.S. (cum laude) and Ph.D. degrees in electrical en- gineering from the University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy, in 2002 and 2007, respectively.

He is currently an Associate Professor of electron- ics with the Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Trento, Trento, Italy. He has authored or coauthored more than 280 research papers in international conferences and journals on ultralow- power embedded systems, energy harvesting, and powermanagement ofVLSI circuits.He holds several patents and is annually ranked among the top 2% of scientists according to the “Stanford World Ranking of Scientists” from 2020. His research interests include new techniques of energy scavenging for IoT and embedded systems, the optimization of low-power and low-cost consumer electronics, and the interaction and design issues in embedded personal and wearable devices.

Dr. Brunelli is aMember of several TPC conferences on the Internet of Things (IoT) and is an Associate Editor for the journals, such as Sensors and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS (TAFE).

Open Access provided by ‘Università degli Studi di Trento’ within the CRUI CARE Agreement