IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 3, NO. 1, MARCH/APRIL 2025

[20] RamakrishnanM. and Sahaya Anselin Nisha A., “Groundnut leaf disease detection and classification by using backpropagation algorithm,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Commun. Signal Process., 2015, pp. 0964–0968.

[21] O. Elijah, S. K. A. Rahim, E. A. Abioye, Y. O. Salihu, A. A. Oremeyi, and M. J. Musa, “Decision support platform for production of chili using IoT, cloud computing, and machine learning approach,” in Proc.

IEEE Nigeria 4th Int. Conf. Disruptive Technol. Sustain. Develop., 2022, pp. 1–5.

[22] S. B.Kutty et al., “Classification of watermelon leaf diseases using neural network analysis,” in Proc. IEEE Bus. Eng. Ind. Appl. Colloq., 2013, pp. 459–464.

[23] T. Wiesner-Hanks et al., “Image set for deep learning: Field images of maize annotatedwith disease symptoms,”BMCRes. Notes, vol. 11, 2018, Art. no. 440.

[24] S. V. Kulkarni, V. Hegde, M. Naik, and R. Bhavana, “Detection of plant leaf disease using image processing and automation of pesticide spraying,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Emerg. Res. Comput., Inf., Commun. Appl., 2023, pp. 535–544.

[25] S. Mude, D. Naik, and A. Patil, “Leaf disease detection using image processing for pesticide spraying,” Int. J. Adv. Eng. Res. Develop., vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 1–5, 2017.

[26] Z. Iqbal, M. A. Khan, M. Sharif, J. H. Shah, M. H. ur Rehman, and K. Javed, “An automated detection and classification of citrus plant dis- eases using image processing techniques: A review,” Comput. Electron.

Agriculture, vol. 153, pp. 12–32, 2018.

[27] Z. Lin et al., “A unified matrix-based convolutional neural network for fine-grained image classification of wheat leaf diseases,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 11570–11590, 2019.

[28] J. Amara, B. Bouaziz, and A. Algergawy, “A deep learning-based ap- proach for banana leaf diseases classification,” pp. 79–88, 2017.

[29] M.López-López, R.Calderón,V.González-Dugo, P. J. Zarco-Tejada, and E. Fereres, “Early detection and quantification of almond red leaf blotch using high-resolution hyperspectral and thermal imagery,” Remote Sens., vol. 8, no. 4, 2016, Art. no. 276.

[30] H. Waheed, N. Zafar, W. Akram, A. Manzoor, A. Gani, and S. ul Islam, “Deep learning based disease, pest pattern and nutritional deficiency detection system for ‘zingiberaceae’ crop,” Agriculture, vol. 12, no. 6, 2022, Art. no. 742.

[31] J. Dhanik, N. Arya, and V. Nand, “A review on zingiber officinale,” J. Pharmacognosy Phytochem., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 174–184, 2017.

[32] G. Meenu and M. Kaushal, “Diseases infecting ginger (zingiber offic- inale roscoe): A review,” Agricultural Rev., vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 15–28, 2017.

[33] G. Meenu and T. Jebasingh, “Diseases of ginger,” in Ginger Cultivation and Its Antimicrobial and Pharmacological Potentials. Rijeka, Croatia: IntechOpen, 2020, pp. 1–31.

[34] A. Kumar and A. Hayward, “Bacterial diseases of ginger and their control,” in Ginger. Boca Raton, FL, USA: CRC Press, 2016, pp. 361–386.

[35] W. B. Demilie, “Plant disease detection and classification techniques: A comparative study of the performances,” J. Big Data, vol. 11, no. 1, 2024, Art. no. 5.

[36] D. Yadav, H. Gaurav, R. Yadav, R. Waris, K. Afzal, and A. C. Shukla, “A comprehensive review on soft rot disease management in ginger (zin- giber officinale) for enhancing its pharmaceutical and industrial values,” Heliyon, vol. 9, 2023, Art. no. e18337.

[37] L. C. Ngugi, M. Abelwahab, and M. Abo-Zahhad, “Recent advances in image processing techniques for automated leaf pest and dis- ease recognition—A review,” Inf. Process. Agriculture, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 27–51, 2021.

[38] G. Stirling, U. Turaganivalu, A. Stirling, M. Lomavatu, and M. Smith, “Rhizome rot of ginger (zingiber officinale) caused by pythium myri- otylum in Fiji and Australia,” Australas. Plant Pathol., vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 453–460, 2009.

[39] D. Prasath, A. Matthews, W. T. O. Neill, E. A. Aitken, and A. Chen, “Fusarium yellows of ginger (zingiber officinale roscoe) caused by fusarium oxysporum f. sp. zingiberi is associated with cultivar-specific expression of defense-responsive genes,” Pathogens, vol. 12, no. 1, 2023, Art. no. 141.

[40] H. Hu, Y. Gong, C. Cao, R. Zhou, C. Liu, and Z. Zhu, “First report of alternaria alternata causing leaf yellow spot on ginger (zingiber officinale roscoe) in Laifeng,China,”PlantDis., vol. 107, no. 5, 2023,Art. no. 1636. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1094/pdis-02-22-0363-pdn

[41] S. Nelson, “Bacterial wilt of edible ginger in Hawaii,” Plant Dis., vol. 99, pp. 1–8, 2013.

[42] T. P. Prameela and R. S. Bhai, “Bacterial wilt of ginger (zingiber offic- inale rosc.) incited by ralstonia pseudosolanacearum—A review based on pathogen diversity, diagnostics and management,” J. Plant Pathol., vol. 102, pp. 709–719, 2020.

[43] B. Muhammad, K. L. Ling, L. W. Hong, and G. Vadamalai, “Detection and characterization of cucumber mosaic virus infecting ginger (zingiber officinale roscoe) inMalaysia,” Int. J. Sci., Basic Appl. Res., vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 9–15, 2021.

[44] B. Muhammad, G. Vadamalai, L. L. Kong, and W. H. Lau, “Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) transmission through infected ginger (zingiber officinale roscoe) and turmeric (curcuma longa L.) rhizomes,” Indian Phytopathol., vol. 76, no. 4, pp. 1127–1130, 2023.

[45] A. I. Bhat, K. P. Naveen, N. S. Pamitha, and R. P. Pant, “Association of two novel viruses with chlorotic fleck disease of ginger,” Ann. Appl.

Biol., vol. 177, no. 2, pp. 232–242, 2020.

[46] G. Momin, D. Firake, G. Behere, and P. Baiswar, “Pest com- plex, biology and population dynamics of insect pests of ginger in northeast India,” Indian J. Entomol., vol. 80, no. 2, pp. 244–250, 2018.

[47] S. Devasahayam and K. A. Koya, “Insect pests of ginger,” in Ginger. Boca Raton, FL, USA: CRC Press, 2016, pp. 387–410.

[48] NIPHM, “AESA based IPM-ginger,” Accessed: Jun. 30, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://niphm.gov.in/IPMPackages/Ginger.pdf

[49] A. Kumar, “Methods for screening ginger (zingiber officinale rosc.) for bacterial wilt resistance,” Indian Phytopathol., vol. 59, no. 3, pp. 281–286, 2012.

[50] K. Khatso and N. A. Tiameren, “Biocontrol of rhizome rot disease of ginger (zingiber officinale rosc.),” Int. J. Bio-Resource Stress Manage., vol. 4, pp. 317–321, 2013.

[51] C. Lalfakawma, B. C. Nath, L. Bora, S. Srivastava, and J. Singh, “In- tegrated disease management of zingiber officinale rosc. rhizome rot,” Bioscan, vol. 9, pp. 265–269, 2014.

[52] N.Dohroo, S.Kansal, andN.Ahluwalia, “Studies on eco-farmer-friendly practices for management of soft rot of ginger (zingiber officinale),” Indian Phytopathol., vol. 68, pp. 93–96, 2015.

[53] A. K. Pandey, L. P. Awasthi, J. P. Srivastva, and N. K. Sharma, “Man- agement of rhizome rot disease of ginger (zingiber officinale rose L.),” J. Phytol., vol. 2, no. 9, pp. 18–20, 2010.

[54] M. Rai, A. P. Ingle, P. Paralikar, N. Anasane, R. Gade, and P. Ingle, “Effective management of soft rot of ginger caused by pythium spp. and fusarium spp.: Emerging role of nanotechnology,” Appl. Microbiol.

Biotechnol., vol. 102, pp. 6827–6839, 2018.

[55] D. Debata, A. Sethy, D. Panda, and P. Sarangi, “Management of rhizome rot of ginger,” Environ. Ecol., vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 97–100, 2019.

[56] J. Merga, “Epidemiology and management strategies of ginger leaf spot disease (phyllosticta zingiberi),” Plant Pathol. Quarantine, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 138–143, 2021.

[57] S. Sharma, N. P. Dohroo, S. Veerubommu, S. Phurailatpam, N. Thakur, andA.N.Yadav, “Integrated diseasemanagement of storage rot of ginger (zingiber officinale) caused by fusarium sp. in Himachal Pradesh, India,” Int. J. Curr. Microbiol. Appl. Sci., vol. 5, no. 12, pp. 3580–3592, 2017.

[58] S. Ukaew, W. Weerachaipichasgul, N. Motong, P. Chantam, and W. Yaowarat, “Implication of soil carbon changes on the greenhouse gas emissions of pickled ginger: A case study of crop rotation cultivation in northern Thailand,” Energy, Ecol. Environ., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 370–387, 2023.

[59] H. Rahman, K. Ramaiyan, K. Kishore, and R. Denzongpa, “Traditional practices of ginger cultivation in northeast India,” Indian j. traditional knowl., vol. 8, pp. 23–28, 2009.

[60] F. Wang, X. Zhang, M.Wei, Y.Wang, Z. Liang, and P. Xia, “Appropriate crop rotation alleviates continuous cropping barriers by changing rhi- zosphere microorganisms in panax notoginseng,” Rhizosphere, vol. 23, 2022, Art. no. 100568.

[61] Z. Wubshet, “Economic importance and management of ginger bacterial wilt caused by Ralstonia solanacearum,” Int. J. Res. Stud. Agricultural Sci., vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 1–11, 2018.

[62] H. Rymbai, A. Das, K. P. Mohapatra, H. D. Talang, B. Nongbri, and I. Law, “Ginger (zingiber officinale) based intercropping systems for enhancing productivity and income—A farmers participatory approach,” Indian J. Agricultural Sci., vol. 91, no. 7, pp. 956–960, 2021.

[63] J. K. Soni, B. Lalramhlimi, and I. Shakuntala, “Ginger cultivation in Mizoram: Status, constraints, sustainable approaches and prospects,” in Advances in Agricultural, Animal and Fisheries Sciences. Kozhikode, India: ZNAN Publishers, Soc. Technol., Environ., Sci. People, 2022, pp. 47–58.

Authorized licensed use limited to: FUDAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on August 28,2025 at 01:51:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.