ELIJAH et al.: PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT IN GINGER PLANTS: AIOT

LIME andGrad-CAM, help in crop disease detection bymaking AI model predictions more transparent, showing which features or image regions contribute to disease identification, thereby improving trust and decision making in ginger disease and pest management.

E. Generative AI

Generative AI is currently being explored to overcome the limitations and scarcity faced in well-annotated datasets [99], [100]. The generative AI can generate new content, ideas, or solutions based on patterns learned from the existing data. The use of generative AI techniques, such as StyleGAN [101], a variation of generative adversarial networks [102], bidirectional encoder representations from transformers [103], and DALL-E

[104] can be leveraged for disease detection in ginger plants. The use of generative AI offers the potential to generate realistic ginger disease and pest image datasets for different scenarios, thus accelerating the deployment of AIoT for ginger production.

F. Hyperspectral Imaging

The use of HSI for the early detection of nonvisible diseases in ginger plants opens up several research issues. This includes the design and development of field-portable hyperspectral tech- nologies with minimum postprocessing, which is expected to attract several research interests. For instance, a smartphone HSI technique was presented in [105], which offers a low-cost solution with portability and user-friendly. The research on identifying the exact bands related to different diseases will pave the way for the development of specific HSI cameras for ginger diseases. This will lead to lesser costs in the acquisition of the HSI cameras. The combination of HSI with XAI is expected to attract more research interest in disease detection in ginger plants. Similar to what has been explored in [106]. These innovative approaches to assessing the quality characteristics of the rhizomes can be developed.

G. Data Collection

There is currently a lack of adequate real-world well- annotated datasets for ginger farming. Hence, more historical data are needed. This includes data related to soil conditions, environmental factors, crop health, growth patterns, field condi- tions, disease outbreaks, farmingpractices, andweather patterns. More research work is needed in the deployment of IoT devices, remote sensing, and deployment of farm management software for the collection of real-world data.

IX. CONCLUSION

In this article, the common diseases that affect ginger plants have been presented. Early disease detection in ginger plants remains an important criterion for high-yield production among small- and large-scale ginger farmers. The conventional ways of preventing diseases in ginger plants have been discussed. The emergence of IoT and AI technology is providingmore effective ways of preventing and detecting diseases in ginger plants. The application of AIoT can enable detection of the fungal, bacterial,

viral, and nematode diseases in the soil, air, and various parts of the plant. The use of smartphones, drones, and robots in combination with AI techniques, such as HSI, XAI, and IoT, is a promising solution for future ginger farmers for successful ginger production.

REFERENCES

[1] N. H. Samrat, J. B. Johnson, S. White, M. Naiker, and P. Brown, “A rapid non-destructive hyperspectral imaging datamodel for the prediction of pungent constituents in dried ginger,” Foods, vol. 11, no. 5, 2022, Art. no. 649.

[2] R.-H. Ma et al., “A recent update on the multifaceted health benefits associated with ginger and its bioactive components,” Food Function, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 519–542, 2021.

[3] K. P. Nair and K. P. Nair, “Production, marketing, and economics of ginger,” in Turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) and Ginger (Zingiber offici- nale Rosc.)- World’s Invaluable Medicinal Spices: The Agronomy and Economy of Turmeric and Ginger. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2019, pp. 493–518.

[4] P. Joshi and S. Khanal, “Production status, export analysis, and future prospects of ginger in Nepal,” Arch. Agriculture Environ. Sci., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 202–209, 2021.

[5] This Day, “Devastating ginger disease outbreak wreaks economic havoc in Kaduna,” Accessed: Mar. 17, 2024. [Online]. Avail- able: https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2023/09/25/devastating- ginger-disease-outbreak-wreaks-economic-havoc-in-Kaduna/

[6] M. Horita et al., “Comprehensive control system for ginger bacterial wilt disease based on anaerobic soil disinfestation,” Agronomy, vol. 13, no. 7, 2023, Art. no. 1791.

[7] M. J. Guji, H. T. Yetayew, and E. D. Kidanu, “Yield loss of ginger (zingiber officinale) due to bacterial wilt (ralstonia solanacearum) in different wilt management systems in Ethiopia,”Agriculture Food Secur., vol. 8, 2019, Art. no. 5.

[8] A. C. Hayward and K. G. Pegg, “Bacterial wilt of ginger in Queensland: Reappraisal of a disease outbreak,” Australas. Plant Pathol., vol. 42, pp. 235–239, 2013.

[9] O. Kolesnikova, M. G. Yigezu, A. L. Tonja, M. M. Woldeyohannis, G. Sidorov, and A. Gelbukh, “Ginger disease detection using a computer vision pre-trainedmodel,” in Innovations inMachine andDeep Learning: Case Studies and Applications. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2023, pp. 419–432.

[10] V. Singh, N. Sharma, and S. Singh, “A review of imaging techniques for plant disease detection,” Artif. Intell. Agriculture, vol. 4, pp. 229–242, 2020.

[11] M. H. Saleem, J. Potgieter, and K. M. Arif, “Plant disease detection and classification by deep learning,” Plants, vol. 8, no. 11, 2019, Art. no. 468.

[12] M. Ray et al., “Fungal disease detection in plants: Traditional assays, novel diagnostic techniques and biosensors,” Biosensors Bioelectron., vol. 87, pp. 708–723, 2017.

[13] F. Martinelli et al., “Advanced methods of plant disease de- tection: A review,” Agron. Sustain. Develop., vol. 35, pp. 1–25, 2015.

[14] H. Durmus, E. O. Günes, and M. Kırcı, “Disease detection on the leaves of the tomato plants by using deep learning,” in Proc. 6th Int. Conf.

Agro-geoinform., 2017, pp. 1–5.

[15] K. P. Ferentinos, “Deep learning models for plant disease detection and diagnosis,” Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 145, pp. 311–318, 2018.

[16] S. Thomas et al., “Benefits of hyperspectral imaging for plant disease detection and plant protection: A technical perspective,” J. Plant Dis.

Protection, vol. 125, pp. 5–20, 2018.

[17] L. Li, S. Zhang, and B. Wang, “Plant disease detection and classification by deep learning—A review,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 56683–56698, 2021.

[18] A. Ramcharan, K. Baranowski, P.McCloskey, J. Legg, D. P. Hughes, and B. Ahmed, “Deep learning for image-based cassava disease detection,” Front. Plant Sci., vol. 8, 2017, Art. no. 293051.

[19] S. P. Mohanty, D. P. Hughes, and M. Salathé, “Using deep learning for image-based plant disease detection,” Front. Plant Sci., vol. 7, 2016, Art. no. 215232.

Authorized licensed use limited to: FUDAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on August 28,2025 at 01:51:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

95