IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AGRIFOOD ELECTRONICS, VOL. 3, NO. 1, MARCH/APRIL 2025

TABLE II

SUMMARY OF APPLICATION OF ML TECHNIQUES FOR DISEASE DETECTION IN GINGER PLANTS

\begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|c|} \hline Ref & ML Techniques & Application : neurion & Sensors & Outcome\\ & & & & \\ \hline [30] & CNN, NN & Personal care : neurion & 7220 - 16000 pixels & * ANN (accuracy) - 95\%, 97\%, and 96\%\\ & & & & \\ & \scriptsize{Mo bileNet V2}, and & \scriptsize{resnet-51, encoder}, and \scriptsize{mask} & CNN (accuracy) - 92\%, 95\%, and 99\% \\ & \scriptsize{VGG-16} & \scriptsize{resnet-51, encoder}, and \scriptsize{mask} & & \\ & & & & \scriptsize{cancer cells} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{VGG-16 (accuracy) - 95\%, 95\%, and 99\% (96\%)} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{Racunipicin}\\ \hline [99] & \scriptsize{Improvec} & \scriptsize{Ginger} sed and show : & \scriptsize{7328 - 7328 Pixel} & \scriptsize{Mean average precision} - \scriptsize{98.73\%} \\ & \scriptsize{YCLOv4-uit} & \scriptsize{or:} \scriptsize{estimation} \scriptsize{learning} & \scriptsize{MV-EM400C cam} & \scriptsize{Accuracy} - \scriptsize{98\%, 99\%, and 99\% (96\%)} \\ & \scriptsize{Mo bileNet-exv2} & & & \scriptsize{Bench test data from} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{Chin et data from} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{MIT} \\ \hline [81] & \scriptsize{YOLOv3 with} & \scriptsize{Ginger} sed and show : & \scriptsize{HK:vision} & \scriptsize{Average precision} - \scriptsize{98.2\%} \\ & \scriptsize{Dietkamp-53} & \scriptsize{or:} \scriptsize{estimation} \scriptsize{learning} & \scriptsize{MV-CE200-100C cam} & \scriptsize{F1-measure} - \scriptsize{94\%} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{City, Shanghai} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{Province, China} \\ \hline [79] & CNN & \scriptsize{Ginger} disease & \scriptsize{14D - 0 + 0-9} & \scriptsize{Accuracy} - \scriptsize{95\%} \\ & & \scriptsize{detection-bacteria} & \scriptsize{Samsung ka-9a exy 510 (16) } & \scriptsize{(F1-measure)} - \scriptsize{94\%} \\ & & \scriptsize{on:} & \scriptsize{MPEG-64 encoder} & \scriptsize{(Accuracy)} - \scriptsize{94\%} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{(Performance)} - \scriptsize{94\%} \\ \hline [80] & CNN, \scriptsize{YOLOv2}, & \scriptsize{Nutritional} \scriptsize{diabetes}, & \scriptsize{InfiniNets Pro: 9h min} - \scriptsize{6h} & \scriptsize{* CNN (accuracy) - 96\%, 95\%, and 38\% (94\%)}\\ & & \scriptsize{soft} \scriptsize{19k} \scriptsize{disease}, & \scriptsize{vec} - \scriptsize{plane} & \scriptsize{(Accuracy)} - \scriptsize{97\%, 98\%, and 99\%} \\ & \scriptsize{YOLOv3} & \scriptsize{pattern} \scriptsize{detect} & & \scriptsize{Mo bileNet-V2 (accuracy) - 97\%, 93\%, and 53\% (96\%)} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{YCLoV3 (accuracy) - 30\%}, \scriptsize{80\%, 83\%, and 75\% (94\%)} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{Racunipicin}\\ \hline [91] & CNN, \scriptsize{YOLOv2} & \scriptsize{Detection-bacteria} & \scriptsize{Samsung ka-9a exy 510 (16) } & \scriptsize{MobilNetV2 (accuracy) - 67\%} \\ & & \scriptsize{on:} & \scriptsize{MPEG-64 encoder} & \scriptsize{(Accuracy)} - \scriptsize{94\%} \\ & & & & \scriptsize{(Performance)} - \scriptsize{94\%} \\ \hline \end{tabular}

Fig. 3. Example of HSI image for disease detection in plant [78]. (a) Hyper- cube and (b) spectral reflectance of a healthy plant.

with traditional RGB methods, researchers can obtain a comprehensive view of both visible and nonvisible symp- toms, leading to more effective disease management and intervention strategies.

3) HSI: HSI involves capturing reflected light in contigu- ous narrow spectral bands across the electromagnetic spectrum as a hypercube. Hyperspectral cameras employ imaging and spectroscopy techniques to generate multidi- mensional image data. The operation of the HSI camera spans a broad range of 250–2500 nm wavelength and covers ultraviolet, visible, and NIR spectrum. The use of HSI is considered a powerful tool for early disease detection in plants [1], [11], [17], [77], [78]. The HSI helps to overcome the inability to detect diseases via visual inspection of signs and symptoms by focusing on specific parts of images or areas of interest, which contain anomalies. The HSI aids early plant disease detection

[68] by employing imaging and spectroscopy techniques to generate multidimensional image data as a hypercube [see Fig. 3(a)]. This enables precision disease control. By generating high-resolution spectral data [see Fig. 3(b)], HSI enhances early disease detection by identifying subtle

physiological changes and anomalies not visible through standard visual inspection [77]. This capability is particu- larly valuable for detecting diseases in ginger plants, as it enables precise identification of early stage conditions and abnormalities by focusing on specific spectral signatures associated with various diseases.

4) ML Techniques: ML algorithms have been widely used for disease detection in crops, including ginger [30].

Supervised learning algorithms, such as support vector machines, random forests, and k-nearest neighbors, have been applied to classify ginger plant images based on dis- ease symptoms. These algorithms rely on labeled training data to learn patterns and make predictions, enabling the accurate disease diagnosis. DL, a subset ofML, has shown remarkable performance in various computer vision tasks, including image classification and object detection. Con- volutional neural networks (CNNs), in particular, have been successfully applied to detect diseases in ginger plants from images [79]. Transfer learning, where pre- trained CNN models are fine-tuned on ginger disease datasets, has proven effective in leveraging large-scale image datasets and achieving high classification accuracy [80], [81]. Waheed et al. [30] explored the CNN for the detection of soft rot diseases in the rhizomes, VGG-16 for the detection of nutrient deficiency and pest pattern in affected ginger leaves, and artificial neural network (ANN) for nutritional deficiency in the ginger leaves. While the use of the CNN, VGG-16, and ANN showed high accuracy of 99%, 96%, and 96%, respectively, on simulated results, there was no real-life deployment to verify the performance. The work from [30] was extended in [80] by evaluating the performance of object detection model YOLOv5 for disease detection and proposed a DL-enabled mobile-based system. Fang et al. [69], [81] focused on the use of the ML technique in the detection of the orientation of ginger seed buds for mechanized

Authorized licensed use limited to: FUDAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on August 28,2025 at 01:51:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.