ELIJAH et al.: PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT IN GINGER PLANTS: AIOT 89

TABLE I

SUMMARY OF GINGER DISEASES AND PESTS [48]

\begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|c|} \hline Diseases & Causes & Favourable Conditions & Symptoms & Concompre \\ \hline \multicolumn{5}{|c|}{\textbf{Fungulic Disecions}}\\ \hline \small{Rhizozuroides} & \textit{Pulorum annuum}, \textit{Fusarium} & \small{High soil moisture, high} & \small{Eradication ofrhizomes into a} & \small{Decontamination and cea tation of} \\ & & \small{spp., endiobium ramosissum} & \small{ecum-ecum} & \small{gumhs, plant} \\ & & \small{poor drainage,} & \small{leaf spots,} & \small{shallow roots} \\ & & \small{nematical} & \small{infestation} & \small{grledge y whole leaves} \small{to yellow} \\ \hline \small{Fusarium Yellowlips} & \textit{Fusariumoxysporum} f. sp. & \small{Warmed} & \small{harmful} & \small{Decontamination and} \\ & & \small{zypheurium} & \small{canae} & \small{rhizomes} \\ \small{Leaf Spots} & \textit{Physicothecium} spp. & \small{Overhead} & \small{watering} & \small{small} \\ & & \small{cercularis,} & \small{eadih} & \small{harmful} \\ & & \small{toxica} & \small{poor} & \small{disease} \\ & & \small{peristigma} & \small{spp.} & \small{large} \\ & & \small{\textit{Saprolegnia}} & & \small{toxins} \\ \hline \small{Storage Rots} & \textit{Pseudomonas} spp. & \small{Feruloxautum} & \small{High soil} & \small{mould} \\ & & \small{asporylilus} & \small{spp.} & \small{damp} \\ & & \small{\textit{Aspergillus}} spp. & \small{and} & \small{poor} \\ & & \small{\textit{Pericallis}} spp. & \small{nematical} & \small{infestation} \\ & & \small{\textit{Saprolegnia}} & & \small{toxins} \\ & & \small{\textit{Aspergillus}} spp. & & \small{large} \\ & & \small{\textit{Pseudomonas}} spp. & & \small{high} \\ & & \small{\textit{Fusariumoxysporum}} f. sp. & & \\ \hline \small{Rhizozioides} & \small{Cucumber raphanistrum virus} & \small{High} & \small{ferrate} & \small{toxins} \\ & \small{(GVN)} & \small{temperature} & \small{over 30°c.} & \small{under} \\ & & \small{water} & \small{for at least} & \small{a week} \\ \hline \small{Clostridium} & \small{Chloroxyani} & \small{High} & \small{hunger} & \small{toxins} \\ & & \small{(CPV)} & & \\ \hline \multicolumn{5}{|c|}{\textbf{Ginger:} \textbf{Past}}\\ \hline \small{Shot} & \small{\textit{Convolvulus arvensis}} & \small{30--33°c.} & \small{fungal} & \small{high} \\ & & \small{temperature} & \small{over 30°c.} & \small{under} \\ & & \small{and} & \small{water} & \small{for at least} \\ & & \small{a week from} & \small{to 10 days} & \\ \hline \small{Rhizome scale} & \small{\textit{Calyste} } & \small{Dyew} & \small{infestation} & \small{toxins} \\ & & & & \small{derivative} \\ \hline \small{Rhizone fly} & \small{\textit{Cyperoxus spp.}} & \small{Warmed} & \small{and} & \small{harmful} \\ & & \small{and} & \small{low} & \small{under} \\ & & \small{and} & \small{water} & \small{for at least} \\ & & \small{a week from} & \small{to 10 days} & \\ \hline \small{Clostridium} & \small{\textit{Bacillus} f.} & \small{Worm} & \small{and} & \small{toxins} \\ & & & & \small{under} \\ \hline \small{Rhizone} & \small{\textit{Aspergillus}} spp. & \small{Spp.} & \small{and} & \small{under} \\ & & & & \small{water} \\ \hline \small{Clostridium} & \small{\textit{Pseudomonas}} spp. & \small{Warmed} & \small{and} & \small{damp} \\ & & \small{and} & \small{under} & \small{water} \\ \hline \small{Rhizone} & \small{\textit{Aspergillus}} spp. & \small{Ca.} & \small{C.} & \small{disease} \\ & & & & \small{fungal} \\ \hline \small{Rhizone} & \small{\textit{Pseudomonas}} spp. & \small{Spp.} & \small{and} & \small{under} \\ & & \small{and} & \small{water} & \small{for at least} \\ & & \small{and} & \small{and} & \small{a week} \\ \hline \end{tabular}

IV. DISEASE MANAGEMENT

Ginger disease management has been discussed in the litera- ture [49], [50], [51], [52], [53], [54], [55], [56], [57]. Ginger disease management can be classified into the conventional methods and smart precision methods.

A. Conventional Methods

Conventional methods of disease management in ginger in- volve practices that have been traditionally used and rely primar- ily on established agricultural techniques, chemical applications, and biological controls.

1) Cultural Practices: Cultural practices involve the use of crop rotation [58], [59], [60], sanitation [61], intercrop- ping [62], [63], and soil management [64] methods. In crop rotation, ginger cultivation is done by rotating with nonhost crops that are not susceptible to ginger-specific diseases. For instance, a cycle of 2–4 years of rotation of ginger crops and other crops, such as paddy, potato, and mustard, was reported in [59]. This helps in reducing pathogen load in the soil, thereby disrupting the life cycle of soilborne pathogens. This requires good management from the farmers. Aside from crop rotation, intercropping, which is the practice of growing two or more crops in proximity, offers several benefits to ginger cultivation [62], [63]. This is due to some factors, such as improvement of soil structure, reduction in the spread of soilborne diseases, and reduction in light intensity [65]. The use of sanitation involves maintaining a high level of hygiene to prevent the spread of diseases [61]. The infected plants are destroyed, while tools and equipment are properly cleaned to avoid cross contamination. In the soil management method, good drainage systems are put in place to avoid water logging [64]. This helps prevent root and rhizome rot. Effective irrigation method, such as drip or furrow irrigation, which delivers water directly to the root zone, helps reduce the spread of fungal diseases. While these cultural practices have proved to be successful, ginger

Authorized licensed use limited to: FUDAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on August 28,2025 at 01:51:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.