2.3.Sufficient Conditions for the class $\mathcal { F } _ { \mathcal { L P } }$ . In this section, we establish some sufficient conditions for the class $\mathcal { F } _ { \mathcal { L P } }$ . Below,we state a Lemma given by Jack $\sharp$ ，which isutilised in context of the classunder consideration.

Lemma 2.22. $\bigstar$ Lemma 1, p.470] Let $\nu ( z )$ be a non-constant analytic function in $\mathbb { D }$ ，such that $\nu ( 0 ) = 0$ If $| \nu ( z ) |$ attains its maximum value on the circle $| z | = r$ at a point $z _ { 0 }$ ，then $z _ { 0 } \nu ^ { \prime } ( z _ { 0 } ) = k \nu ( z _ { 0 } )$ ，where $k$ is real and $k \geq 1$

Theorem 2.23. Suppose $0 \leq t \leq 1$ and let $f \in { \mathcal { A } }$ satisfy the following differential inequality

$$
\left| t \left( 1 + \frac { z f ^ { \prime \prime } ( z ) } { f ^ { \prime } ( z ) } \right) + ( 1 - t ) \frac { z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) } { f ( z ) } - 1 \right| < \frac { 1 } { 6 } ( 3 + 2 t ) , \quad z \in \mathbb { D } ,
$$

then $f \in \mathcal { F } _ { \mathcal { L P } }$

Proof. Consider an analytic function $\nu ( z )$ with $\nu ( 0 ) = 0$ . Assume $f \in { \mathcal { A } }$ such that

$$
\frac { z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) } { f ( z ) } - 1 = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \nu ( z ) .
$$

We show that $| \nu ( z ) | < 1$ in $\mathbb { D }$ .Suppose on the contrary $| \nu ( z ) | \ge 1$ , then by an application of Lemma 2.22 there exists $z _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { D }$ such that for $k \geq 1$ ， $| \nu ( z _ { 0 } ) | = 1$ and ${ z _ { 0 } \nu ^ { \prime } ( z _ { 0 } ) = k \nu ( z _ { 0 } ) }$ .Substituting $\nu ( z _ { 0 } ) = e ^ { \imath \mu }$ $- \pi < \mu \leq \pi$ leads to

$$
\begin{array} { l } { { \displaystyle \left| \left( 1 + \frac { z f ^ { \prime \prime } ( z ) } { f ^ { \prime } ( z ) } \right) + ( 1 - t ) \frac { z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) } { f ( z ) } - 1 \right| } } \\ { { \displaystyle ~ = \left| t \left( 1 + \frac { \nu ( z _ { 0 } ) } { 2 } + \frac { k \nu ( z _ { 0 } ) } { 2 + \nu ( z _ { 0 } ) } \right) + ( 1 - t ) \left( 1 + \frac { \nu ( z _ { 0 } ) } { 2 } \right) - 1 \right| } } \\ { { \displaystyle ~ = \left| \frac { t k e ^ { i \mu } } { 2 + e ^ { i \mu } } + \frac { e ^ { i \mu } } { 2 } \right| \geq \frac { 1 } { 6 } ( 3 + 2 t ) } . } \end{array}
$$

This is contradiction to the assumption given in $\underline { { \left( \mathrm { 2 . 1 2 } \right) } }$ Thus $| \nu ( z ) | < 1$ ，which means that $z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) / f ( z )$ lies in the disc $| ( z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) / f ( z ) ) - 1 | < 1 / 2$ .Hencein view of Lemma ${ \underline { { \left| 2 . 5 \right| } } } ,$ (with $a = 1$ ）required result is achieved.

For $t = 1 / 2$ ， $t = 0$ and $t = 1$ in Theorem2.23we obtain the following corollary,

Corollary 2.24. Let $f \in { \mathcal { A } }$ satisfy the following differential inequalities

(i） $| ( z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) / f ( z ) + z f ^ { \prime \prime } ( z ) / f ^ { \prime } ( z ) ) - 1 | < 4 / 3$ ，or  
(i） $| ( z f ^ { \prime } ( z ) / f ( z ) ) - 1 | < 1 / 2$ ，or  
(iii) $| z f ^ { \prime \prime } ( z ) / f ^ { \prime } ( z ) | < 5 / 6$ ，

then $f \in \mathcal { F } _ { \mathcal { L P } }$

# CONCLUSION

In thepresent investigation,we introduce a class of analytic functions associated with certain parabolic region.In particular,we have considered a case when parabola is lying majorly in the left half plane and symmetric about real axis.The other cases namely,oblique parabolic regions are still open,for similar investigations.

# APPENDIX

The classes we come across in the present investigation are listed below for the ready reference of the reader.