points on a smooth surface $X$ . The motivation for this calculation was suggested by Donaldson with the computation of theoretical physics. The problem is as follows :let $n$ be a positive integer and $| H |$ be a linear system that induces a map $X  \mathbb { P } ^ { 3 n - 2 }$ ： Let $X ^ { [ n ] }$ be the Hilbert scheme of $\boldsymbol { n }$ points of $X$ . For each zero-dimensional subscheme $\xi \in X ^ { [ n ] }$ if the map

$$
H ^ { 0 } ( \mathbb { P } ^ { 3 n - 2 } , { \mathcal { O } } _ { \mathbb { P } } ( 1 ) ) \to H ^ { 0 } ( \xi , { \mathcal { O } } _ { \xi } ( 1 ) )
$$

fails to be surjective,then $\xi$ does not impose independent conditions on the linear system $| H |$ . The authors computation on top Segre classes and $N _ { n }$ would give formuli for the degree of all higher secant varieties of a surface under suffcient higher very ample embedding conditions.

As a generalization of above results on the degree of the 3-secant variety $\sigma _ { 3 } ( X )$ for arbitrary dimension of $X$ ,the main theorem is presented as follows :

Theorem 1.1 (Main theorem). Let $X$ be a nonsingular projective variety embedded by a $\it 5$ -very ample line bundle. Let $n$ and $d$ be the dimension and the degree of $X$ .Then the degree of the 3-secant variety $\sigma _ { 3 } ( X )$ is given by the following formula :

$$
{ \frac { 1 } { 3 ! } } \{ d ^ { 3 } - \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { n } d \ a _ { n , k } \ \deg s _ { k } ( T _ { X } ) + \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { n } \sum _ { a = 0 } ^ { k } 2 ^ { k - a + n + 1 } { \binom { 3 n + 2 } { n - k } } \ \deg ( s _ { a } ( T _ { X } ) \cdot s _ { k - a } ( T _ { X } ) ) \} 
$$

where $\begin{array} { r } { a _ { n , k } = \binom { 2 n + 1 } { n - k } + 2 \sum _ { i = k } ^ { n } ( - 1 ) ^ { i - k } \binom { 3 n + 2 } { n - i } \binom { i - k + n } { n } . } \end{array}$

When attempting to compute the degree of the 3-secant variety for arbitrary dimension of $X$ ，it isnot possible to imitate the approach in $\boxed { 1 0 }$ by Lehn. It is because the universal family $Z _ { 3 } \subset X \times X ^ { \left[ 3 \right] }$ may be singular(cf.). Additionally the refined Bezout's theorem cannot be applied directly. One possible approach is toset $V$ as the triple join $J ( X , X , X )$ of $X$ and $\sigma$ as the addition map defined by $\vert x _ { 0 } , \cdot \cdot \cdot x _ { N } , y _ { 0 } , \cdot \cdot \cdot , y _ { N } , z _ { 0 } , \cdot \cdot \cdot z _ { N } \vert \mapsto \vert x _ { 0 } + y _ { 0 } + z _ { 0 } , \cdot \cdot \cdot , x _ { N } + y _ { N } + z _ { N } \vert$ . The image $\sigma ( V )$ is the 3-secant variety $\sigma _ { 3 } ( X )$ . However the indeterminacy locus of $\sigma$ can be non-reduced, making computation of $v ^ { i } ( \underline { { \sigma } } , V )$ much more difficult. Therefore it is not advisable to imitate the approach in $\bigstar$

To circumvent these issues,we propose to use the secant bundle,which was introduced by R.L.E. Schwarzenberger in $\boxed { \mathrm { T I } }$ for the purpose of giving fiber bundle structure of secant lines.While the original construction was based on symmetric product of a given variety,rather than the Hilbert scheme of points,in this paper we adopt the convention presented in $\bigstar$ and $\boxed { 1 5 }$ where the secant bundle is a projective bundle over a Hilbert scheme of points. This approach has been used in previous works such as 图， $\boxed { 1 3 }$ ， $\textmu m$ and $\boxed { 1 5 }$ ，where the secant bundles was used as a tool for describing the singularity and the normality of the 2-secant variety. In this paper,we utilize the biraional morphism from the secant bundle to the 2-secant variety as a resolution of singularities.

In Section 2,we define the total Segre class of a cone and introduce a generalized version of double point formula. This formula allows us to compute the total Segre class $s ( X , \sigma _ { 2 } ( X ) )$ in order to determine the degree of the 3-secant variety. However, the singularity of the 2-secant variety may impede this computation. To overcome this issue, we introduce the notion of higher very ampleness of a line bundle $\mathcal { L }$ and the secant bundle in Section 3. We take the secant bundle as a nonsingular birational model for the 2-secant variety when the line bundle $\mathcal { L }$ satisfies the higher very ampleness condition. As shown in $\boxed { 1 3 }$ , the inverse image of $X$ under this birational morphism is isomorphic to the universal family $Z _ { 2 } \subset X \times X ^ { \left\lfloor 2 \right\rfloor }$ when $\mathcal { L }$ is 3-very ample. This allows us to regard