# 4Main theorem

In order to derived the degree formula for the 3-secant variety, it is necessary to utilize each term of $\bigstar$ Theorem 8.2.8]. To accomplish this,we present the following lemma.

Lemma 4.1. Let $X$ be a nonsingular projective variety that is embedded by a $\it 5$ uery ample line bundle.Let $Y$ be the $\mathcal { Z }$ -secant variety $\sigma _ { 2 } ( X )$ Let $J$ be the ruled join $J ( X , Y )$ Then $\deg ( J / X Y )$ is $\mathcal { J }$ ：

Proof.Let $w$ be a general point of $\sigma _ { 3 } ( X ) \setminus \sigma _ { 2 } ( X )$ . If there are two secant planes that contain $w$ ，6 points of $X$ do not satisfy the independent condition of 5-very ampleness.(cf.5, Remark 1.7]) So, there exists a unique plane spanned by three points of $X$ that contains $w$ Let $x , y$ ，and $z$ be three distinct points of $X$ such that their linear span contains $w$ Let $a , b$ ，and $c$ be the points of intersection of $\overline { { x w } }$ with $\overline { { y z } }$ ， $\overline { { y w } }$ with $\overline { { z x } }$ ，and $\overline { { z w } }$ with $\overline { { x y } }$ ，respectively. Then，the three points of the ruled join $J ( X , Y )$ corresponding to the ratios between $( x , w ) , ( w , a ) , ( y , w ) , ( w , b )$ ，and $( z , w ) , ( w , c )$ are exactly the inverse image of the rational map $J ( X , Y ) \mathrel { - } \mathrel { - } \hat { x } Y$ ： □

Prior to starting a proof of the main theorem,we denote the tangent sheaf of $X$ by $T _ { X }$ . It follows from the definition of Segre class that $s _ { k } ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) ) = s _ { n - k } ( T _ { X } )$ as a Segre class of a locally free sheaf. With this notation established,we now proceed to the proof of the main theorem:

Proof of main theorem. Recall that $X$ isa smooth projective variety of dimension $n$ and $E \subset Z _ { 2 }$ can be regarded as a projective bundle associated with the tangent bundle on $X$ . Using equations $( \lvert 5 \rvert )$ ， $( \left| 1 1 \right. )$ ， and proposition $| 3 . 2 ,$ we obtain:

$$
s ( X , \sigma _ { 2 } ( X ) ) = q _ { * } \left( \sum _ { i \geq 0 } ( - 1 ) ^ { i } ( 2 E + \eta ^ { * } ( h _ { 1 } - h _ { 2 } ) ) ^ { i } \right) .
$$

Let $P ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) )$ be the projective tangent cone to $X$ and $\mathcal { O } ( 1 )$ be the tautological line bundle. Let $g : P ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) )  X$ be the projection map. Note that $P ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) )$ is isomorphic to the projective bundle $\mathbb { P } ( \Omega _ { X } ^ { 1 } )$ where $\Omega _ { X } ^ { 1 }$ is the sheaf of $\mathrm { K } \ddot { a }$ hler diferentials. The total Segre classes $s ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) )$ and $s ( T _ { X } )$ are equal but they have different conventions for indexes: $s _ { k } ( T _ { X } ) = s _ { n - k } ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) )$ for $0 \leq k \leq n$ . As schemes, $E$ and $P ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) )$ are the same and hence $E | _ { E } = \mathcal { O } ( - 1 )$ holds.

Remark.Recall that we use the convention for projective bundles and tautological line bundles as in $\textcircled { 8 }$ Appendix B.5.5].

Therefore we have

$$
\eta _ { * } E ^ { i } = \eta _ { * } ( E | _ { E } ) ^ { i - 1 } = ( - 1 ) ^ { i - 1 } g _ { * } ( c _ { 1 } ( { \mathcal { O } } ( 1 ) ) ^ { i - 1 } \cap [ P ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) ) ] )
$$

for $i \geq 1$ and hence $\eta _ { * } E ^ { i } = ( - 1 ) ^ { i - 1 } s _ { i - n } \big ( T _ { \Delta ( X ) } )$ for $i \geq n$ Since $\eta ^ { * } ( h _ { 1 } - h _ { 2 } ) \cdot E$ is zero, we obtain that

$$
\eta _ { * } \sum _ { l = n } ^ { 2 n } ( - 1 ) ^ { l } ( 2 E + \eta ^ { * } ( h _ { 1 } - h _ { 2 } ) ) ^ { l } = \sum _ { l = n } ^ { 2 n } ( - 1 ) ^ { l } ( h _ { 1 } - h _ { 2 } ) ^ { l } - \sum _ { l = n } ^ { 2 n } 2 ^ { l } s _ { l - n } ( T _ { X } ) \cap [ X ] .
$$