The dimension $i$ part of the Segre class $s ( C )$ is denoted $s _ { i } ( C )$ ，and if $C$ isequidimensional, then $s _ { i } ( C ) = s ^ { \dim C - i } ( C )$ . The dimension $i$ part of the Segre class of the normal cone of a closed immersion $X  Y$ is denoted $s _ { i } ( C _ { X } Y )$ or $s ( X , Y ) _ { i }$

For the better understanding of the generalized version of double point formula, we give a definition of two kind of join varieties.

Definition 2. (cf. $\textcircled { 7 }$ Chapter 1.3])

Let $X$ and $Y$ be subvarieties of $\mathbb P ^ { N }$ ． The embedded join of $X$ and $Y$ is the closure of the union of all lines connecting a point in $X$ to a point in $Y$ ，denoted $X Y$ The abstract or ruled join $J ( X , Y )$ is the projective spectrum of the tensor product of the homogeneous coordinate rings of $X$ and $Y$ ,denoted $J ( X , Y )$

For example, the ruled join of $\parallel ^ { p n }$ and $\parallel ^ { p m }$ is $\mathbb { P } ^ { n + m + 1 }$ . The affine cone of a subvariety $X$ is defined as the spectrum of the homogeneous coordinate ring of $X$ . The ruled join $J ( X , Y )$ consists of the closed points $\left[ x : y \right]$ where $x$ and $y$ are points of affine cones of $X$ and $Y$ ,respectively.

Let $X$ and $Y$ be two projective subvarieties of the projective space $\mathbb P ^ { N }$ ，and let $x$ and $y$ be closed points in $X$ and $Y$ ，respectively， with coordinate representations $[ x _ { 0 } : \cdots : x _ { N } ]$ and $[ y _ { 0 } : \cdots : y _ { N } ]$ . We define a rational map $J ( X , Y )  X Y$ by

$$
[ x _ { 0 } : \cdots : x _ { N } : y _ { 0 } : \cdots : y _ { N } ] \mapsto [ x _ { 0 } - y _ { 0 } : \cdots : x _ { N } - y _ { N } ] .
$$

The indeterminate locus of this map is defined by the equations $x _ { 0 } - y _ { 0 } = \cdot \cdot \cdot = x _ { N } -$ $y _ { N } = 0$ .We denote the degree of this rational map $J ( X , Y ) \mathrel { - } \mathrel { - } \hat { x } Y$ by $\deg ( J / X Y )$

The intersection $X \cap Y$ is embedded into the product variety $X \times Y$ along its diagonal embedding. Let $C _ { X \cap Y } ( X \times Y )$ denote the normal cone of $X \cap Y$ to $X \times Y$ .The following theorem decomposes the information of the embedded join into simpler pieces:

Theorem $\perp$ Theorem 8.2.8] For subvarieties $X , Y$ of $\mathbb P ^ { N }$ of degree $d _ { X }$ ，resp. $d _ { Y }$ and dimension $n$ ,resp. $m$ we have

$$
\deg X Y \deg ( J / X Y ) = d _ { X } d _ { Y } \ - \sum _ { k \geq 0 } { \binom { n + m + 1 } { k } } \ \deg s _ { k } ( C _ { X \cap Y } ( X \times Y ) ) .
$$

This formula is derived from the refined Bezout's theorem,which is based on Vogel's $\boldsymbol { v }$ and $\beta$ cycle construction. For further explanations, see $\textcircled { 7 }$ Chapter 2] and $\textcircled { 7 }$ Chapter 8.

If we set $Y = \sigma _ { 2 } ( X )$ ，then the embedded join $X Y$ is the 3-secant variety $\sigma _ { 3 } ( X )$ Thus, in order to compute $\deg \sigma _ { 3 } ( X )$ ， we need the degree of the 2-secant variety $d _ { Y } =$ $\deg \sigma _ { 2 } ( X )$ as well as the degrees of the Segre classes $s _ { k } ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times \sigma _ { 2 } ( X ) ) )$ Assume that ${ \mathcal { O } } _ { X } ( 1 )$ isa 3-very ample line bundle. The degree of the 2-secant variety $d _ { Y }$ can be obtained by applying $\textcircled { 7 }$ Theorem 8.2.8] again:

$$
2 \deg \sigma _ { 2 } ( X ) = d _ { X } ^ { 2 } - \sum _ { k \geq 0 } { \binom { 2 n + 1 } { k } } \ \deg s _ { k } ( C _ { \Delta ( X ) } ( X \times X ) ) .
$$

If $\mathcal { L }$ is 5-very ample, the degree of the rational map $J ( X , Y ) \ \xrightarrow { } -  \ X Y$ is3.(cf. Lemma $\boxed { 4 . 1 }$ ）Therefore,by the above theorem,the degree of the 3-secant variety of $X$ can be computed as follows:

$$
\frac { 1 } { 3 } \left( \frac { d _ { X } ( d _ { X } ^ { 2 } - A ) } { 2 } - B \right)
$$