$Z _ { 2 }$ as the inverse image of $X$ .Since the codimension of $Z _ { 2 }$ in the secant bundle is1, we can treat $Z _ { 2 }$ asan effective divisor，which aids in computation.In Section 4，we derive the main theorem which provides the degree formula for the 3-secant variety by using the refined Bezout's theorem and the total Segre class computed in Section 3. Additionally，we compute the multiplicity of $\sigma _ { 2 } ( X )$ along $X$ . In Section 5,we apply the main theorem to cases of curves and surfaces with explicit calculations.

Acknowledgements This research was partially supported by the Institute for Basic Science (IBS-R032-D1） and the author would like to thank Yongnam Lee for his suggestions for research topics.

# 2Generalized double point formula

The generalized version of double point formula is one of a useful application of the refined Bezout’s theorem that is a fundamental theorem in intersection theory. The double point formula allows us to compute the degree of the intersection of two subvarieties of a projective space. In this paper,we will use it as a starting point to understand the complexity of the 3-secant variety in terms of the 2-secant variety.

To set the stage for the generalized version of double point formula,we first introduce some notation and conventions. Let $X$ be an algebraic scheme over a field $k$ and （ $S ^ { \cdot } : = \oplus _ { \nu } S ^ { \nu }$ be a sheaf of graded $O _ { X }$ -algebras. We assume that the map $\mathcal { O } _ { X }  S ^ { 0 }$ is surjective, $S ^ { 1 }$ is coherent,and $S$ is generated by $S ^ { 1 }$ . We define the cone of $S$ asthe relative spectrum $C : = \mathbf { S p e c } ( S ^ { \cdot } )$ and the projection $C  X$ . The projective cone of $S$ is defined as the relative projective spectrum $P ( C ) : = \mathbf { P r o j } ( S ^ { \cdot } )$ with the projection $P ( C ) \to X$ .We also define $P ( C \oplus 1 ) : = \mathbf { P r o j } ( S ^ { \cdot } [ z ] )$ as the projective completion of $C$ ，with projection $q : P ( C \oplus 1 ) \to X$ ，and let $\mathcal { O } ( 1 )$ be the tautological line bundle on $P ( C \oplus 1 )$ ：

Remark. Throughout this paper,we use the convention for projective bundle as in （ Appendix B.5.5].

With these conventions in place, we can now define the Segre class of a cone.

Definition 1. (cf. $\boxed { 8 }$ Chapther 4])

For a variety $V$ ， we denote the algebraic cycle corresponding to $V$ as $\left[ V \right]$ .The Segre class of $C$ is the class in $A _ { * } ( X )$ defined by

$$
s ( C ) : = q _ { * } ( \sum _ { i \geq 0 } c _ { 1 } ( \mathcal { O } ( 1 ) ) ^ { i } \cap [ P ( C \oplus 1 ) ] ) .
$$

There are two useful examples of total Segre classes of cones: when the cone is given by a vector bundle,in which case the Segre class can be interpreted as the inverse of the total Chern class,and when the cone is the normal cone of a closed embedding, in which case the Segre class is called the Segre class of the closed immersion and is denoted $s ( X , Y )$

The codimension $i$ part of the Segre class, $s ^ { i } ( C )$ ,of a cone $C$ is defined in $\bigstar$ as

$$
s ^ { i } ( C ) = q _ { * } ( c _ { 1 } ( \mathcal { O } ( 1 ) ) ^ { i } \cap [ \mathbb { P } ( C \oplus 1 ) ] ) ,
$$

where $i \ \geq 0$ .The projective completion of $C$ is denoted as $P ( C \oplus 1 )$ in $\textcircled { 8 }$ and as $\mathbb { P } ( C \oplus 1 )$ in $\bigstar$ . These two notations refer to the same concept.Alternatively, $s ^ { i } ( C )$ can also be represented as $p _ { * } ( c _ { 1 } ( \mathcal { O } ( 1 ) ) ^ { i - 1 } \cap [ \mathbb { P } C ] )$ ，where $p : \mathbb { P } C \to X$ is the projective cone of $C$