give the following table for each case.

$$
\begin{array}{c} \frac { [ \begin{array} { l } { { { q } } \end{array} ] 9  1 3  1 7  2 5  2 9  3 7  4 1  4 9  } { { { g }  \alpha  2  3  \beta  2  5  6  \gamma  } } } \\ { { \frac { \lambda } { { { x }  \alpha  4  6  1  4  2  3  2  2  2 \gamma  } } } } \end{array}
$$

where $\alpha = 1 + \sqrt { - 1 }$ in $\mathbb { F } _ { 9 } = \mathbb { F } _ { 3 } ( { \sqrt { - 1 } } ) , \beta = 1 + 2 { \sqrt { 2 } }$ in $\mathbb { F } _ { 2 5 } = \mathbb { F } _ { 5 } ( { \sqrt { 2 } } )$ and $\gamma = 4 + \sqrt { - 1 }$ in $\mathbb { F } _ { 4 9 } = \mathbb { F } _ { 7 } ( \sqrt { - 1 } )$

This completes the verifications of all cases in which $N _ { g } > 0$ .Moreover,we've exhibited all solutions $( x , y )$ such that $x y \neq 0$ and thus finish the proof.

We would like to point out that it's possible to prove Corollary $2 . 3$ by using the bound $\textcircled{6}$ without applying the Hasse-Weil bound.

In view of Conjecture $\bigtriangledown$ we only need to find a generator $g$ d $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times }$ such that $\mathcal { C } _ { g } ( \mathbb { F } _ { q } )$ is non-empty. Instead of computing $N _ { g }$ ,our goal is to show that the following sum

$$
N ( q , \ell ) = \sum _ { \mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times } = \langle g ^ { \prime } \rangle } N _ { g ^ { \prime } } = \sum _ { 1 \leq t \leq q - 1 , \atop \operatorname* { g c d } ( t , q - 1 ) = 1 } N _ { g ^ { t } }
$$

is a positive integer under appropriate conditions.

# 3.KEY INGREDIENTS

In this section, we gather tools and results that are needed for the proof of TheoremA To simplify the notation, we'll put $( a _ { 1 } , a _ { 2 } ) = \operatorname* { g c d } ( a _ { 1 } , a _ { 2 } )$ , the greatest common divisor of integers $a _ { 1 }$ and $a _ { 2 }$ . The following lemma is an elementary fact in algebra which we will use repeatedly. As one can easily find a proof in any algebra text book,we skip the proof here.

Lemma 3.1. Let $n \in \mathbb { N }$ and let d be a divisor of n. Then the canonical group homomorphism

$$
\pi : ( \mathbb { Z } / n \mathbb { Z } ) ^ { \times } \to ( \mathbb { Z } / d \mathbb { Z } ) ^ { \times }
$$

induced by

$$
\begin{array} { l l l } { \mathbb { Z } / n \mathbb { Z } } & { \to } & { \mathbb { Z } / d \mathbb { Z } } \\ { k + n \mathbb { Z } } & { \mapsto } & { k + d \mathbb { Z } } \end{array}
$$

is surjective. Furthermore, this homomorphism splits. Namely, there exists a subgroup $M$ of $( \mathbb { Z } / n \mathbb { Z } ) ^ { \times }$ which is isomorphic to $( \mathbb { Z } / d \mathbb { Z } ) ^ { \times }$ under $\pi$ and $( \mathbb { Z } / n \mathbb { Z } ) ^ { \times } = M \cdot N$ where $N = \ker ( \pi )$ ：

For $n \in \mathbb { N }$ and $m \in \mathbb { Z }$ , the Ramanujan's sum $c _ { n } ( m )$ (Ram18] or HSW00 pp. 179- 199]) is defined by

$$
c _ { n } ( m ) = \sum _ { 1 \leq t < n , \atop ( t , n ) = 1 } \zeta _ { n } ^ { m t }
$$