over $\mathbb { F } _ { q }$ .Let $\mathcal { C } _ { g }$ be the affine plane curve defined by this equation. Note that $\mathcal { C } _ { g }$ is nonsingular and irreducible over $\overline { { \mathbb { F } _ { q } } }$ ,an algebraic closure of $\mathbb { F } _ { q }$ . Denote the set of $\mathbb { F } _ { q }$ -rational points of $\mathcal { C } _ { g }$ by

$$
\mathcal { C } _ { g } ( \mathbb { F } _ { q } ) = \Big \{ ( x , y ) \in \mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { 2 } \mid g ^ { 2 } x ^ { \ell } + g y ^ { \ell } + 1 = 0 \Big \}
$$

and let $N _ { g } = | \mathcal { C } _ { g } ( \mathbb { F } _ { q } ) |$ be its cardinality. Furthermore, let $\widetilde { \mathcal { C } _ { g } }$ be the (Zariski) closure of $\mathcal { C } _ { g }$ in the projective plane defined by the homogeneous equation

$$
g ^ { 2 } X ^ { \ell } + g Y ^ { \ell } + Z ^ { \ell } = 0 .
$$

Note that $\widetilde { \mathcal { C } _ { g } }$ is also non-singular. We let $\widetilde { N _ { g } }$ denote the cardinality of $\widetilde { \mathcal { C } _ { g } } ( \mathbb { F } _ { q } )$ .Having ConjectureBand Conjecture $\bigtriangledown$ in mind, we are especially concerned with whether or not a point $( x , y ) \in \mathcal { C } _ { g } ( \mathbb { F } _ { q } )$ satisfying $x y \neq 0$ . The following lemma shows that this is always true except for very limited special cases.

Lemma 2.1. Equation $\textcircled{4}$ has a nontrivial solution $( x , y , z )$ with $x y z = 0$ if and only if one of the following situations holds:

(i) $\ell = 1$ or2; (ii) $\ell = 4$ and $- 1 \notin L .$

Moreover, if $\ell > 2$ ,then $x z \neq 0$ ：

Proof. Suppose that $( x , y , z )$ is a nontrivial solution to Equation $\textcircled{4}$ with $x y z = 0$ .Then only one of $x , y , z$ is zero. Observe that if $x = 0$ or $z = 0$ ,then $- g \in L$ and $g L$ is either of order 1 or 2 in $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times } / L$ ；if $y = 0$ ,then $- g ^ { 2 } \in L$ and $g L$ is of order 4 in $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times } / L$ . In particular, we have $x z \neq 0$ provided that $\ell \neq 2$ . In the case where $\ell = 4$ , we see that $- L = g ^ { 2 } L \neq L$ It follows that $- 1 \notin L$

Conversely, if $\ell = 1$ then it's clear that Equation $\textcircled{4}$ has a nontrivial solution $( x , y , z )$ with $x y z = 0$ . Suppose that $\ell = 2$ ,then $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times } / L = \{ L , g L \}$ .If $- 1 \notin L$ ,then $- L = g L$ In this case, $g = - a ^ { 2 } \in L$ for some $a \in \mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times }$ . Then, we clearly have solutions $( x , y , z ) = ( 1 , a , 0 )$ and $( 0 , 1 , a )$ . Suppose $- 1 \in L$ ,then $- g ^ { 2 } = b ^ { 2 } \in L$ for some $b \in \mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times }$ and we have the solution $( x , y , z ) = ( 1 , 0 , b )$ in this case.

Finally, suppose that $\ell = 4$ and $- 1 \notin L$ Then both $g ^ { 2 } L$ and $- L$ are of order 2 in the cyclic group $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times } / L$ Thus, $- L = g ^ { 2 } L$ and this gives a solution $( x , y , z ) = ( 1 , 0 , b )$ where $- g ^ { 2 } = b ^ { 4 } \in L$ □

Following [Wei48], the number $N _ { g }$ of solutions to Equation $( 3 )$ can be expressed as a character sum which we now recall. As usual, by a multiplicative character of $\mathbb { F } _ { q }$ we mean a character of the group $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times }$ , i.e. a group homomorphism from $\mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times }$ to $\mathbb { C } ^ { \times }$ . As we only deal with multiplicative characters of $\mathbb { F } _ { q }$ ，we'll simply call them characters. The trivial character will be denoted by $\varepsilon$ such that $\varepsilon ( a ) = 1$ for all $a \in \mathbb { F } _ { q } ^ { \times }$ . We extend the domain of a character $\chi$ such that $\chi ( 0 ) = 1$ if $\chi = \varepsilon$ and $\chi ( 0 ) = 0$ otherwise. We call the extension of $\chi$ an extended character and still denote the extension by $\chi$ if there is no