# The kinematics of the magnetized protostellar core IRAS15398-3359

Farideh.S.Tabatabaei1,Elena Redaeli1,Paola Caselli1,andFelipeO.Alves1

CentreforAstrochemicalStudies，Max-Planck-InstitutfurextraterrestrischePhysik,GieBenbachstraBe1，85749Grchingbei Muinchen, Germany

ReceivedXXX; accepted XXX

# ABSTRACT

Context.Obseatiosofprotostellnveoseesstialiertundestadettteprossofgaviaioalletoward starand planetformationFromatheoreticalperspective,magneticfieldsreconsideredanimportantfactorduringtheearlystages of star formation,especially during the main accretion phase.   
Aims.Ouraiistostudytherelationbetweenkinematicsandmagneticfieldsataveryearlystageofthestarformationprocessby usingdata from the Atacama Pathfinder EXperiment (APEX) single-dish antenna with anangular resolution of $2 8 "$   
Methods.We observed the twomolecular lines $\mathrm { C } ^ { 1 8 } \mathrm { O }$ (2-1) and $\mathrm { D C O ^ { + } }$ (3-2) toward the Class O young stellarobject IRAS15398-3359. Weimplementedamulti-componentGausianfitingonthemoleculardatatostudytheinematics.Inaditio,weusedprevious polarization observations on this source to predict the influence of the magnetic field on the core.   
Results.Thevelocitygradientalongthecentralobjectcanbeexplainedasanongoingoutfowmotion.Wereporttheflowingof material from the filament toward thecentral object,and the merging of two velocity components in the $\mathrm { C } ^ { 1 8 } \mathrm { O }$ (2-1) emission around theprotostarpositionprobablyduetothemergingofflamentaryclouds.Ouranalysissowsthatthergescalemageticfeldline observed previously is preferentially aligned to the rotation axis of the core.

Key words.Stars: formation-Stars: protostars-Magnetic felds-Astrochemistry-ISM: kinematics and dynamics

# 1. Introduction

Observing protostellar envelopes around very young protostars is fundamental to gaining a better understanding of the progression of the collapse of protostellar cores toward planetary systems. Class O objects are known to represent the youngest stage of protostellar evolution (André et al. 1993 Andreé et al. 2000) Most of their mass is contained in a dense envelope that accretes to the central protostar during the main accretion phase (Maury et al.2011 Evans et al.2009). Protostars are deeply embedded intheir parent cores,which may cause interactionsbetween protostellar outflows and surrounding gas leading to complex morphologies.Detailing these structures will allow us to learn about the dynamics of protostellar evolution at an early stage.In light of these circumstances,it becomes essential to investigate in detail the earliest stages of star formation for specific sources.

The study of the extent and contribution of magnetic fields in star formation and the competition between magnetic and turbulent forces is still a highly debated topic in modern astronomy (e.g., Mac Low & Klessen 2004 McKee & Ostriker 2007 Crutcher|2012). However, in the star formation process, especiallyduring the early stages,magnetic fields(B) are expected to play a crucial role,providing a source of non-thermal pressure against the gravitational pull (McKee & Ostriker2007). In light of the fact that interstellar gases are often mildly ionized (Caselli et al.1998), the matter is likely to be coupled with the magnetic field lines at envelope scales.Due to gravity, magnetic lines bend inward, thus producingan hourglass shape,and in low-mass starforming regions this effect is not detected frequently (detected in 30 percent of young stellar objects in polarization;Hull & Zhang 2019|Pattle et al.2022)

IRAS15398-3359 (hereafter IRAS15398） is a low-mass Class O protostar at a distance of 156 pc (Dzib et al. $\boxed { 2 0 1 8 }$ ，embedded in the Lupus_I molecular cloud, $\begin{array} { r l } { \alpha _ { 2 0 0 0 } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $\overline { { { 1 5 ^ { \mathrm { n } } 4 3 ^ { \mathrm { m } } } } } 0 2 ^ { \mathrm { s } } . 2 , \delta _ { 2 0 0 0 } = - 3 4 ^ { \circ } 0 9 ^ { \prime } 0 7 . 7 ^ { \prime \prime }$ It has a bolometric temperature of $4 4 ~ \mathrm { K }$ Jgrgensen et al.2013). The protostellar mass is $0 . 0 0 7 _ { - 0 . 0 0 3 } ^ { + 0 . 0 0 4 } \mathbf { M } _ { \odot }$ Okoda etal Lupus Iis te least evolved component of the Lupus complex $\mathrm { \langle \overline { { R y g l ~ e t ~ a l . } } \vert \overline { { 2 0 1 3 } } \rangle }$ ,and optical polarization studies have demonstrated thatLupus Iis threaded byaveryordered magnetic field thatisperpendicularto itsfilamentary extension $\mathrm { ( F r a n c o ~ \& ~ A l v e s | 2 0 1 5 ) }$ .Therefore,itisan ideal place to study the kinematics of the early stages of lowmass star formation and the connection between the source kinematics and the strong large-scale magnetic field. By observing its CO emission line with the single-dish and interferometric observation,amolecular outflow was detected from this source Tachihara et al.1996 Bjerkeli et al.2016: van Kempen et al. $\overrightarrow { 2 0 0 9 }$ . The core is embedded in a less dense $\overline { { ( N ( H _ { 2 } ) \sim 1 0 ^ { 2 2 } } }$ $\overline { { \mathrm { c m } ^ { - 2 } } } .$ ）filamentary structure,which extends toward the northwest.

Based on magnetic field studies in protostellar core simulation analysis,more magnetized cores show strong alignments of the outflow axis with the magnetic field orientation,whereas less_magnetized cores display more random alignment $\ "$ et al.2O17). Observational results present a mixture of cases. Galametz et al. $\textcircled { 2 0 1 8 }$ used a sample of 12 low-mass Class 0 protostars to investigate the submillimeter polarized emission at scales of $\sim 6 0 0 - 5 0 0 0$ au,and demonstratedarelationbetween the field morphology,the core rotational energy,and the multiplicity of the protostellar system.According to that paper's analysis,the envelope scale magnetic field tends to be either aligned or perpendicular to the outflow direction,but for single sources