is most prevalent.

Fora single point of introduction, the time scale that convergence happens on is of the same order as that of the spatial effects,compare Figure $\boxed { 1 }$ left column in this paper to Figure1 in $\boxed { 1 4 }$ . This means that both contributions have to be considered simultaneously. However, spatial dynamics and network modelsalso include local outbreaks that havea brief, but fierce growth,even on a population level if the prevalence is low $\boxed { 1 6 }$

While the time scale $\tau$ is used here for the mixing of groups, the same mechanism also applies to the competition between variantswith different growth rate,ora combination of the two.Thelattercanbe achieved witha block-diagonal contact matrix.

# V.CONCLUSION

In the above we have investigated the transient effects of SEIR-models when initializing the system away from the dominant eigenvector and the consequences for the observed growth rate.

As expected,an outbreak starting in the more active groups converges faster,and the same is true for amore infectiousdisease.The significant part is the time scale on which the convergence occurs.It turns out that,usingrealistic parameters,the growth rate hasconverged within three weeks,which also means that it is safe to estimate it at this point.

[4] Q.-H.Liu,M.Ajelli,A.Aleta, S.Merler,Y.Moreno, and A. Vespignani, Measurability of the epidemic reproduction number in data-driven contact networks, PNAS 115(50)12680-12685, (2018).   
[5] A.Nava,A.Papa，M.Rossi，and D.Giuliano, Analytical and cellular automaton approach to a generalized SEIR model for infection spread in an open crowded space Phys.Rev.Research 2, 043379 (2020).   
[6] G.Bertaglia and L.Pareschi, Hyperbolic models for the spread of epidemics on networks: kinetic description and numerical methods, ESAIM:M2AN 55,2,381-407 (2021).   
[7] Q. Zhuang and J. Wang, A spatial epidemic model with a moving boundary Infectious Disease Modelling,6,1046-1060 (2021).   
[8] O.Toledano,B.Mula,S.N. Santalla，Javier Rodriguez-Laguna,and O. Galvez， Effects of confinement and uaccination on an epidemic outburst: a statistical mechanics approach,Phys.Rev.E 104, 034310 (2021).   
[9] A.Triska,A.Y. Gunawan,N.Nuraini,Outbreak spatial pattern formation based on an SI model with the infected cross-diffusion term，J. Math.Computer Sci., 271-17 (2022).   
[10]P.A.Werner,M.Ksik-Brodacka,K.Nowak,R. Olszewski, M.Kaleta，and D.T.Liebers,Modeling theSpatial and Temporal Spread of COVID-19 in Poland Based on a Spatial Interaction Model, ISPRSInt.J.Geo-Inf.,11,195 (2022).   
[11] M. Cabrera,F.Cordova-Lepe, J. P.Gutiérrez-Jara et al.，An SIR-type epidemiological model that integrates social distancing as a dynamic law based on point prevalence and socio-behavioral factors, Sci Rep 11,10170 (2021).   
[12] M.Bisiacco and G.Pillonetto，COVID-19 epidemic control using short-term lockdowns for collective gain,Annual Reviews in Control,52,573-586 (2021).   
[13] https://covid19.ssi.dk/analyser-ogprognoser/modelberegninger (In Danish，visited 2022-12-21).   
[14] A.Mielke,On the Role of Spatial Efects in Early Estimates of Disease Infectiousness: A Second Quantization Approach, arXiv:2205.15718 [qbio.PE] (2022).   
[15] F.P.Lyngse et al.， Household transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in Denmark, Nat. Commun.13 (1)，5573 (2022).   
[16] T.Y. Michaelsen et al., Introduction and transmission of SARS-CoV-2 lineage B.1.1.7, Alpha variant, in Denmark, Genome Medicine 14 (47) (2022).

# ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Funding and data provided by Statens Serum Institut,Denmark.

# VI.BIBLIOGRAPHY

[1]R.Ross,An application of the theory of probabilities to the study of a priori pathometry-PartI,Proc. R.Soc.Lond. A92204-230 (1916).   
[2] G.Bastin,Lectures on Mathematical Modelling of Biological Systems,(2012).   
[3] H.Weiss,The SIR model and the Foundations of Public Health,Materials Matematics O (2013).