[9] A.M.Gleason,Measures on the closed subspaces ofa Hilbert space, Indiana Univ.Math.J. 6(1957)，885-893.   
[10] M. Gyry, Transformations on the set of all $n$ -dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preseruing orthogonality,Publ.Math.Debrecen 65 (2004),233-242.   
[11] H.Havlicek,On Plucker transformations of generalized elliptic spaces,Rend.Mat.Appl. (7)15 (1995)，39-56.   
[12] S.Kakutani,G.W.Mackey，Ring and lattice characterizations of complex Hilbert space, Bull.Amer.Math.Soc.52(1946),727-733.   
[13]L.Molnar，Transformationson the set ofall $_ { n }$ -dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving principal angles,Comm.Math.Phys.217 (2001),409-421.   
[14] L.Molnar, Selected Preserver Problems on Algebraic Structures of Linear Operators and onFunction Spaces,Lecture Notes in Mathematics 1895,Springer,2007.   
[15] L.Molnar，Maps on the $_ { n }$ -dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving principal angles,Proc.Amer.Math.Soc.136 (2008)，3205-3209.   
[16]M.Pankov,Grassmannians of classical buildings,World Scientific,2010.   
[17] M.Pankov,Wigner-type theorems for Hilbert Grassmannians,London Mathematical SocietyLecture Note Series 460,CambridgeUniversity Press,2020.   
[18] M.Pankov，T.Vetterlein，A geometric approach to Wigner-type theorems,Bull.London Math.Soc.53 (2021) 1653-1662.   
[19]M.Pankov,K.Petelczyc,M.Zynel, Automorphisms and some geodesic propertiesof orthoGrassmann graphs,Electron.J.Comb.28(2021)，P4.49.   
[20] K. Prazmowski, M. Zynel, Orthogonality of subspaces in metric-projective geometry， Adv. Geom.11(2011)，103-116.   
[21]P.Semrl, Orthogonality preseruing transformationson the setof $_ n$ -dimensional subspaces ofaHilbertspace,IllinoisJ.Math.48(2004),567-573.   
[22]P.Semrl,Wigner symmetries and Gleason's theorem,J.Phys.A: Math.Theor.54 (2021), 315301.   
[23] U.Uhlhorn,Representation of symmetry transformations in quantum mechanics,Ark.Fysik 23 (1963)，307-340.   
[24] Z.Wan,Geometry ofMatrices,World Scientific,1996.   
[25]E.P.Wigner,Gruppentheorieund ihreAnwendungauf die Quantenmechanik derAtomspektren,Fredrik Vieweg und Sohn,1931 (English translation Group Theory and its Applications to the Quantum Mechanics of Atomic Spectra,Academic Press,1959). MARK PANKOV:FACULTY OF MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE,UNIVERSITY OF WARMIA   
ANDMAZURY,SLONECZNA54,1O-710OLSZTYN,POLAND Email address:pankov@matman.uwm.edu.pl ADAMTYC:FACULTY OF MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE，UNIVERSITY OF WARMIA   
ANDMAZURY,SLONECZNA54,10-710OLSZTYN,POLAND Email address:adam.tyc@matman.uwm.edu.pl