# 5.FINAL REMARKS

By $\bigstar \bigstar$ Theorem 3.17],every automorphism of the poset $( { \mathcal { G } } _ { \infty } ( H ) , \subset )$ is induced by an invertible bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator. We explain why the same statement is not proved for the restrictions of adjacency preserving transformations on connected components of $\mathcal { G } _ { \infty } ( H )$

Let $f$ beabijective transformation of $\mathcal { G } _ { \infty } ( H )$ preserving the adjacency relation in both directions and let $\textit { c }$ bea connected component of $\mathcal { G } _ { \infty } ( H )$ .Without loss of generality,we can assume that $f ( \mathcal { C } ) = \mathcal { C }$ .Denote by $c _ { \pm }$ the set ofall $X \in \mathcal { G } _ { \infty } ( H )$ such that $X$ isa subspace of finite codimension in a certain element of $\zeta$ or $X$ containsa certain element of $\zeta$ asa subspace of finite codimension. Then $f$ can beuniquely extended to an automorphism of the poset $( \mathcal { C } _ { \pm } , \subset )$ $\boxed { 1 7 }$ Theorem 2.19]. This extension is denoted by the same symbol $f$

Suppose that $f ( X ) = X$ for a certain $X \in { \mathcal { C } }$ and consider the lattice of finitedimensional subspaces of $X$ . The map sending every finite-dimensional subspace $M \subset X$ to $f ( M ^ { \bot } \cap X ) ^ { \bot } \cap X$ isa lattice automorphism.By the Fundamental Theorem of Projective Geometry, it is induced by a semilinear bijection $A : X  X$ ， i.e. $A$ is additive and there is an automorphism $o$ of the field of complex numbers such that $A ( a x ) = \sigma ( a ) A ( x )$ for every $x \in X$ and $a \in \mathbb { C }$ .It must be pointed out that $A$ isnot necessarily bounded； furthermore, the automorphism $\sigma$ isnot necessarily the identity or the conjugate map.Then

$$
f ( Y ) = ( A ( Y ^ { \perp } \cap X ) ) ^ { \perp } \cap X
$$

for every $Y \in { \mathcal { C } } _ { \pm }$ contained in $X$

If $A$ is an invertible bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator,then the restriction of $f$ to the set of all $Y \in { \mathcal { C } } _ { \pm }$ contained in $X$ is induced by $( A ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { * }$ 17 Proposition 3.7].

Conversely,if this restriction is induced by a semilinear bijection $B : X  X$ ， then $B$ sendsclosed hyperplanes of $X$ toclosed hyperplaneswhich guarantees that $B$ isa bounded linear or conjugate-linear operator (see $\boxed { 1 2 }$ or $\boxed { 1 7 }$ Lemma 3.12]). By $\boxed { 1 7 }$ Proposition 3.7], $A$ is a scalar multiple of $( B ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { * }$ which is impossible if $A$ isunbounded.

So,the restriction cannot be induced bya semilinear bijection if $A$ is unbounded. To assert that $A$ isbounded we need to extend $f$ on $\mathcal { G } _ { \infty } ( X )$ .Only in this case,we can apply arguments used to prove $\boxed { 1 7 }$ Theorem 3.17].

# REFERENCES

[1] G.Chevalier，Wigner's theorem and its generalizations,Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures,429-475,Elsevier,2007.   
[2]W.L.Chow,On the geometry of algebraic homogeneous spaces,Ann.of Math. 50(1949), 32-67.   
[3]J.Dieudonné,La geometrie des groupes classiques (2nd edition),Springer,1963.   
[4] G.P.Gehér,P.Semrl,Isometries of Grassmann spaces,J. Funct.Anal.270 (2016)，1585- 1601.   
[5] G.P.Gehér,Wigner's theorem on Grassmann spaces,J.Funct.Anal.273(2017),2994-3001.   
[6] G.P.Geher,Symmetries of projective spaces and spheres.Int.Math.Res.Not.IMRN 2020, no.7,2205-2240.   
[7] G.P.Gehér,M.Mori， The structure of maps on the space of all quantum pure states that preservea fixed quantum angle,Int.Math.Res.Not.2022,no.16,12003-12029.   
[8] G.P.Gehér，Wigner-type theorems for Hilbert Grassmannians byMark Pankov (book review),Bull.Amer.Math.Soc.59(2022),289-292.