# Acknowledgments

We thank Bas Veeling,Claudio Zeni,Andrew Fowler,Chris Bishop,Rianne van den Berg,Hannes Schulz,Max Welling and the entire Microsoft AI4Science team for insightful discussions and computing help.

References   
Buch,I., Giorgino, T.,and De Fabritiis, G. Complete reconstruction of an enzyme-inhibitor binding process by molecular dynamics simulations. Proceedings of the National Academy ofSciences,108(25):10184-10189,2011.   
Chen,J.,Lu,C., Chenli,B.,Zhu,J.,and Tian,T.Vflow: More expressive generative flows with variational data augmentation. In International Conference on Machine Learning,pp.1660-1669.PMLR,2020.   
Clementi, C.Coarse-grained modelsof protein foding: toy models or predictive tools? Current opinion in structural biology,18(1):10-15,2008.   
Dibak，M.，Klein,L.，Krämer，A.，and Noé,F.Temperature steerable flows and Boltzmann generators. Phys.Rev.Res.,4:L042005,Oct 2022.doi:10.1103/ PhysRevResearch.4.L042005.   
Dinh,L.，Sohl-Dickstein，J.，and Bengio,S.Density estimation using real NVP. In International Conference on Learning Representations,2017. URL https: //openreview.net/forum?id $\equiv$ HkpbnH91x.   
Eastman,P.,Swails,J., Chodera, J. D., McGibbon,R. T., Zhao,Y., Beauchamp, K. A.,Wang,L.-P., Simmonett, A. C.,Harigan, M. P., Stern, C.D.,et al.Openmm 7: Rapid development of high performance algorithms for molecular dynamics.PLoS computational biology,13(7): e1005659,2017.   
Huang, C., Dinh,L., and Courville,A. C. Augmented normalizing flows: Bridging the gap between generative flows and latent variable models.ArXiv,abs/2002.07101, 2020.   
Husic,B.E.and Pande, V. S. Markov state models: From an art to a science. Journal of the American Chemical Society,140(7):2386-2396,2018.   
Kelvin, W.T.B. The molecular tactics of a crystal. Clarendon Press,1894.   
Kmiecik,S.,Gront,D.,Kolinski,M.,Wieteska,L.,Dawid, A.E.,and Kolinski, A. Coarse-grained protein models and their applications. Chemical reviews,116(14):7898- 7936,2016.

Kohler,J.,Klein,L.,and Noé,F.Equivariant flows: exact likelihood generative learning for symmetric densities. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 5361-5370.PMLR,2020.

Kohler,J.，Krämer,A.,and Noé,F.Smooth normalizing flows.In Ranzato,M.，Beygelzimer,A., Daup, 1., Liang, 1., anu vaugnan, J. vv: (eus.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 34，pp.2796-2809.Curran Associates, Inc.，2021. URL https://proceedings. neurips.cc/paper/2021/file/ 167434fa6219316417cd4160c0c5e7d2-Paper pdf.

Laio, A. and Parrinello,M. Escaping free-energy minima. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 99(20): 12562-12566,2002.   
Langevin,P. Sur la theorie du mouvement brownien. Compt. Rendus,146:530-533,1908.   
Levy,D.,Hoffman,M.D.,nd Sohl-Dickstein,J.Generalizing Hamiltonian Monte Carlo with neural networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018.URL https://openreview.net/forum? id $\equiv$ B1n8LexRZ.   
Li，Z.，Chen，Y.，and Sommer，F.T.A neural network MCMC sampler that maximizes proposal entropy. Entropy，23(3)，2021． ISSN 1099-4300.doi: 10. 3390/e23030269. URL https: //www.mdpi.com/ 1099-4300/23/3/269.   
Lindorff-Larsen,K.,Piana,S.,Dror,R.O.,and Shaw,D.E. How fast-folding proteins fold. Science, 334(6055):517- 520,2011.   
Mardt, A., Pasquali,L.,Wu,H.,and Noé,F.VAMPnets for deep learning of molecular kinetics. Nature communications,9(1):1-11,2018.   
Metropolis,N.,Rosenbluth,A.W.,Rosenbluth,M. N., Teller,A.H.,and Teller,E.Equation of state calculations by fast computing machines. The Journal of Chemical Physics,21(6):1087-1092,1953.   
Neal,R.M. Probabilistic inference using Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto Toronto,ON,Canada,1993.   
Noé,F., Schute,C., Vanden-Eijnden,E.,Reich,L.,and Weikl, T.R. Constructing the equilibrium ensemble of folding pathways from short off-equilibrium simulations. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,106 (45):19011-19016,2009.