Theorem 5 (Theorem 4.2 in [SSZ2]). Let $K$ be a convex body with infinitely many facets. Then $b _ { 2 } ( K ) > 1$ ：

Proof.If $K$ has infinitely many facets, then infinitely many of them will satisfy $\mathrm { I s o p } ( F ) > \mathrm { I s o p } ( K )$ so that Theorem 5 follows from Proposition 1.

Let $C$ bea $d$ -dimensional convex body. Then

$$
\mathrm { I s o p } ( C ) = \frac { 1 } { d } \frac { | \partial C | _ { d - 1 } } { | C | _ { d } } = \frac { 1 } { d } \frac { | \partial C | _ { d - 1 } } { | C | _ { d } ^ { d - 1 / d } } | C | _ { d } ^ { - 1 / d } \ge \frac { 1 } { d } \frac { | \partial B _ { 2 } ^ { d } | _ { d - 1 } } { | B _ { 2 } ^ { d } | _ { d } ^ { d - 1 / d } } | C | _ { d } ^ { - 1 / d } = \frac { \kappa _ { d } ^ { 1 / d } } { | C | _ { d } ^ { 1 / d } } ,
$$

where we used the isoperimetric inequality,and where $\kappa _ { d }$ denotes the volume of the $d$ -dimensional euclidean ball.

It follows that $\operatorname { I s o p } ( F ) \to + \infty$ when $| F | _ { n - 1 } \to 0$ . Since a convex body only has finite surface area measure,it follows that if $K$ has infinitely many facets, then all but finitely many of them will satisfy $\mathrm { I s o p } ( F ) > \mathrm { I s o p } ( K )$ □

We conclude this section with the following question.

Question $\mathit { 1 }$ ：Let $P$ be a polytope,other than a simplex.Denote ${ \mathcal { F } } _ { n - 1 } ( P )$ the set of its facets.Do we necessarily have maxTeO(n) maXF∈Fn-1(P) Isop(P)

In words:(if $P$ is not a simplex) does there always exist an affine transform $T$ such that $P ^ { \prime } = T P$ has at least one facet $F ^ { \prime }$ satisfying $\mathrm { I s o p } ( F ^ { \prime } ) > \mathrm { I s o p } ( P ^ { \prime } )$ ？

If the answer is positive,then it would yield another proof of Theorem $1$ (by applying Proposition 1).

# 4.APPENDIX

4.1.Wulff Shape Lemma.We recall the statement of Alexandrov's variational lemma for mixed volumes, Lemma 1, and then provide a proof.

Lemma 3 (Alexandrov's variational lemma, mixed volume version). Assume $K$ is a convex body, $s u p p ( S _ { K } ) \subset \Omega$ ，and $f \in \mathcal { C } ( \Omega , \mathbb { R } )$ .Denote $W _ { t } = W ( \Omega , h _ { K } + t f )$ ， $t \in \mathbb { R }$ .Denote $V _ { 1 } ( t ) = V _ { n } ( W _ { t } , K \vert n - 1 \vert )$ Then ( $t \mapsto V _ { 1 } ( t )$ ）isdifferentiable $^ { 7 }$ at $0$ ，and:

$$
\frac { \mathrm { d } V _ { 1 } ( t ) } { \mathrm { d } t } \bigg | _ { t = 0 } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  0 } \frac { V _ { 1 } ( t ) - V _ { n } ( K ) } { t } = \frac { 1 } { n } \int _ { \mathbb { S } ^ { n - 1 } } f ( u ) d S _ { K } ( u ) ,
$$

Let $K$ be a convex body, $\Omega$ a closed subset of $\mathbb { S } ^ { n - 1 }$ determining8 $K$ , meaning $\begin{array} { r } { K = \bigcap _ { u \in \Omega } H ^ { - } ( u , h _ { K } ( u ) ) } \end{array}$ and let $f$ be a continuous 9 function defined on $\Omega$ .Recall we denote $W _ { t } = W ( \Omega , h _ { K } + t f )$ the associated Wulff-shape perturbations : $W _ { t }$ is a convex body if $t > t _ { 0 }$

Following Alexandrov's notations (see [Al1]), we denote $V _ { k } ( t ) = V _ { n } ( W _ { t } [ k ] , K [ n - k ] )$ (in particular $V _ { 0 } ( t ) = V _ { n } ( K )$ does not depend on $t$ ). We prove $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { V _ { 1 } ( t ) - V _ { 0 } ( t ) } { t }  \frac { 1 } { n } \int _ { \Omega } f ( u ) d S _ { K } ( u ) } \end{array}$ separately for $t \to 0 ^ { + }$ then for $t  0 ^ { - }$ . For sake of clarity,we may omit some dependence from the notations : $V _ { 1 }$ means $V _ { 1 } ( t )$ ,and similarly $V _ { k }$ stands for $V _ { k } ( t )$

In particular Proof. For all $\begin{array} { r l } & { \mathrm { ~ l ~ } t , \mathrm { n o t e ~ t h a t ~ } ( \mathrm { b y ~ d e f i n i t i o n ~ o f ~ } W _ { t } ) V _ { 1 } - V _ { 0 } = \frac { 1 } { n } \int _ { \Omega } ( h _ { W _ { t } } - h _ { K } ) ( u ) d S _ { K } ( u ) \leq \frac { t } { n } \int _ { \Omega } f ( u ) d S _ { K } } \\ & { \mathrm { , l i m s u p } _ { t  0 ^ { + } } \frac { V _ { 1 } ( t ) - V _ { 0 } } { t } \leq \frac { 1 } { n } \int _ { \Omega } f ( u ) d S _ { K } ( u ) . } \end{array}$ x(u).