Here $r$ is the distance of the from the centre of the PNS,and $\nu$ is the radial velocity of the wind.The total heating rate per baryon is $\dot { q } _ { \mathrm { t o t } } = \dot { q } _ { \nu } + \dot { q } _ { w }$ ,where the first termisdue to neutrino heatingand cooling (see Qian & Woosley 1996) while the second term is due to wave damping. $\dot { Y } _ { e }$ isthe rate ofchange in the electron fraction of the wind due to neutrino reactions (see Qian & Woosley 1996). The wave damping length and frequency are $l _ { d }$ and $\omega$ $( { \dot { q } } _ { w } , l _ { d }$ and $\omega$ are discussed in section 3.2 below). $T$ $c _ { s } , \rho$ ,and $h$ denote the local temperature,sound speed, density,and enthalpy,respectively. $W$ is the Lorentz factor,and $\nu _ { g } = \nu + c _ { s }$ represents the group velocity of the waves. $G$ and $c$ represent the gravitational constant and the speed of light,and $e ^ { \Lambda } = \sqrt { 1 - \frac { 2 G M _ { N S } } { r c ^ { 2 } } } .$ 2GMNs. Corrections from the wave stress are denoted by $\delta f _ { 1 }$ and $\delta f _ { 2 }$ (see section 3.1 below).Without the wave action terms,this system is the same as that of Thompson et al. (2001). We employ the equation of state of Timmes & Swesty (2000),which assumes the wind is made up of free protons, neutrons, electrons,positrons,and thermal photons.We search for solutions of these equations that pass through the critical or transonic point where $f _ { 1 }$ and $f _ { 2 }$ pass through zero at the the same radius.

# 3.1 Wave Stress

Evenin the absence of damping,waves ina stellar atmosphere still exert a force on the medium through which they move. This effect iscalculated using the wave action,and adds an extra stress to the momentum equation (e.g. Jacques 1977; Suzuki & Nagataki 2005). For simplicity,we derive these corrections in the non-relativistic limit.

In the absence of wave stress,the non-relativistic momentum equation for this system is

$$
\nu \frac { \partial \nu } { \partial r } = - \frac { 1 } { \rho } \frac { \partial P } { \partial r } - \frac { G M _ { \mathrm { N S } } } { r ^ { 2 } }
$$

Combining this with the other conservation equations yields the nonrelativistic critical form equation

$$
\begin{array} { c } { { \displaystyle \left( \nu ^ { 2 } - c _ { s } ^ { 2 } \right) \frac { d \nu } { d r } = \frac \nu r \left( 2 c _ { s } ^ { 2 } - \frac { G M _ { \mathrm { N S } } } { r } \right) } } \\ { { - \displaystyle \frac { \nu } { \rho } \left[ \left( \frac { \partial P } { \partial s } \right) _ { \rho , Y _ { e } } \frac { d s } { d r } + \left( \frac { \partial P } { \partial Y _ { e } } \right) _ { \rho , s } \frac { d Y _ { e } } { d r } \right] } } \end{array}
$$

from which we extract the non-relativistic forms of $f _ { 1 }$ and $f _ { 2 }$

$$
\begin{array} { r c l } { { f _ { 1 } } } & { { = } } & { { 1 - \displaystyle \left( \frac { \nu } { c _ { s } } \right) ^ { 2 } } } \\ { { } } & { { } } & { { } } \\ { { f _ { 2 } } } & { { = } } & { { \displaystyle \frac { G M _ { \mathrm { N S } } } { c _ { s } ^ { 2 } r } - 2 } } \\ { { } } & { { } } & { { + \displaystyle \frac { r } { \rho c _ { s } ^ { 2 } } \left[ \left( \frac { \partial P } { \partial s } \right) _ { \rho , Y _ { e } } \frac { d s } { d r } + \left( \frac { \partial P } { \partial Y _ { e } } \right) _ { \rho , s } \frac { d Y _ { e } } { d r } \right] } } \end{array}
$$

The non-relativistic momentum equation including corrections from wave propagation is (Jacques 1977)

$$
\rho \nu \frac { d \nu } { d r } + \frac { d } { d r } \left( P + a _ { 1 } \mathcal { E } \right) + \frac { \mathcal { E } } { A } \frac { d A } { d r } + \rho \frac { G M _ { \mathrm { N S } } } { r ^ { 2 } } = 0
$$

where $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { E } = \frac { c _ { s } } { \nu _ { g } } \omega S } \end{array}$ is the energy density of the waves and $A = 4 \pi r ^ { 2 }$ Combined with the other conservation equations,this yields arevised

version of the critical form equation:

$$
\begin{array} { r l } & { \left[ \nu ^ { 2 } - c _ { s } ^ { 2 } + \frac { a _ { 1 } \mathcal { E } \nu } { \rho \nu _ { g } } \left( A _ { \rho } \frac { c _ { \nu } } { \nu } - 2 \right) \right] \frac { d \nu } { d r } } \\ & { = \frac { \nu } { r } \left( 2 c _ { s } ^ { 2 } - \frac { G M _ { \mathrm { N S } } } { r } \right) - \frac { \nu } { \rho } \left[ \left( \frac { \partial P } { \partial s } \right) _ { \rho , Y _ { e } } \frac { d s } { d r } + \left( \frac { \partial P } { \partial Y _ { e } } \right) _ { \rho , s } \frac { d Y _ { e } } { d r } \right] } \\ & { \quad + \frac { a _ { 1 } \mathcal { E } \nu } { \rho r } \left[ - 2 A _ { \rho } \frac { c _ { \nu } } { \nu _ { g } } + X _ { E } A _ { s } \frac { c _ { \nu } } { \nu _ { g } } + 2 - \frac { 2 } { a _ { 1 } } + \frac { r } { l _ { d } } \right] } \end{array}
$$

with $\begin{array} { r } { \iota _ { 1 } = \frac 1 2 ( \gamma + 1 ) , c _ { \nu } = c _ { s } - \nu , X _ { E } = \frac { r } { s } \xi _ { s } , A _ { \rho } = \left( \frac { \partial \ln c _ { s } } { \partial \ln \rho } \right) _ { s } ; } \end{array}$ and $A _ { s } = \Bigg ( \frac { \partial \ln c _ { s } } { \partial \ln s } \Bigg ) _ { \rho } .$ In the wave action terms,wehaveassueda constant adiabatic index $\gamma$ .Note that all terms from equation (7) are present,with an additional correction term on each side.This allows us to define corrections to the original $f _ { 1 }$ and $f _ { 2 }$ functions in equation (8):

$$
\begin{array} { l } { \displaystyle \delta f _ { 1 } = \frac { a _ { 1 } \mathcal { E } } { \rho c _ { s } ^ { 2 } } \left( 2 \frac { \nu } { \nu _ { g } } - A _ { \rho } \frac { c _ { \nu } } { \nu _ { g } } \right) } \\ { \displaystyle \delta f _ { 2 } = - \frac { a _ { 1 } \mathcal { E } } { \rho c _ { s } ^ { 2 } } \left[ \left( A _ { s } \chi _ { e } - 2 A _ { \rho } \right) \frac { c _ { \nu } } { \nu _ { g } } + 2 \left( 1 - \frac { 1 } { a _ { 1 } } \right) + \frac { r } { l _ { d } } \right] } \end{array}
$$

These corrections are then applied to the fully relativistic $f _ { 1 }$ and $f _ { 2 }$ in equation (3).

# 3.2 Wave Heating

Acoustic waves propagating in the wind can become non-linear and shock heat the wind.We model this shock heating via an effective damping length prescription. Wave heating will only begin when the waves steepen into shocks and begin to dissipate their energy. Mihalas $\&$ Mihalas (1984) provides an integral expression for the radial distance at which this takes place:

$$
\frac { 1 } { 4 } ( \gamma + 1 ) c _ { s } ^ { - 1 } \int _ { 0 } ^ { r } u _ { 0 } ( r ^ { \prime } ) d r ^ { \prime } = \frac { \pi c _ { s } } { 2 \omega }
$$

where $u _ { 0 } = \sqrt { \frac { \omega S } { \rho } }$ is the amplitude of the velocity perturbation of the waves and $\gamma$ isthe adiabatic index of the background material.Here and elsewhere, $\omega$ represents the angular frequency (in the lab frame) of thewaves.We then find the condition for shock formationto be

$$
\int _ { 0 } ^ { r } \sqrt { \frac { \omega S } { \rho } } d r ^ { \prime } = \frac { 2 \pi c _ { s } ^ { 2 } } { \omega ( \gamma + 1 ) } .
$$

In the weak shock limit (e.g. Mihalas & Mihalas 1984),the energy density of the waves $\epsilon _ { S }$ evolvesas

$$
\nabla \cdot ( \nu _ { g } \epsilon _ { s } ) = - \frac { m } { \pi } \omega \epsilon _ { s }
$$

where $m = ( \nu / c _ { s } ) ^ { 2 } - 1$ is the reduced Mach number. In a static homogeneous background, the shock can be modeled as a simple saw-toothwave,with energydensity

$$
\epsilon _ { s } = \frac { \gamma P m ^ { 2 } } { 3 ( \gamma + 1 ) ^ { 2 } } .
$$

In the weak shock limit,we take $\epsilon _ { s } = S / \omega$ ，which allows us to find an expression for $m$ in terms of local quantities. Combining the wave action evolution in Eqs. (3) and (14),and assuming a constant $\omega$ ,we find the dissipation length

$$
l _ { d } = \frac { \pi \gamma ^ { 2 } } { \gamma + 1 } \left( \frac { c _ { s } ^ { 2 } \epsilon } { 3 \omega ^ { 3 } S } \right) ^ { 1 / 2 }
$$