from the Leverhulme Trust(UK) under Grant No.RPG2019-325.

[1] V.Singh, J. Vadas,T.Steinbach,B.Wiggins,S.Hudan, R.de Souza, Z.Lin,C.Horowitz,L.Baby, S.Kuvin, V.Tripathi,I.Wiedenhover,and A.Umar,Fusion enhancement at near and sub-barrier energies in $^ { 1 9 }$ O+12C, Physics Letters B 765, 99 (2017).   
[2]V.I. Zagrebaev,V.V. Samarin,and W.Greiner,Subbarrier fusion of neutron-rich nuclei and its astrophysical consequences, Phys. Rev. C 75, 035809 (2007).   
[3] E. Salpeter,Electrons Screening and Thermonuclear Reactions, Australian Journal of Physics 7,373 (1954).   
[4] S.Ichimaru， Strongly coupled plasmas:high-density classical plasmasanddegenerate electron liquids, Rev. Mod. Phys. 54, 1017 (1982).   
[5] B.L. Whiten,N.F. Lane,and J. C.Weisheit, Plasma-screeningeffectsonelectron-impactexcitationofhydrogenicionsindenseplasmas, Phys. Rev.A 29,945 (1984).   
[6] C. E. Rolfs and W. S. Rodney, Cauldrons in the cosmos, Theoretical Astrophysics (University of Chicago Press, Chicago,IL,2006).   
[7] B.Jancovici,Pair correlation function in a dense plasmaand pycnonuclear reactionsinstars, J. of Stat. Phys. 17, 357 (1977).   
[8]M. Aliotta and K. Langanke, Screening effects in stars and in the laboratory, Front. Phys. 10, 942726 (2022).   
[9]E.G.Adelbergeretal.， Solar fusioncross sections.II. Thepp chain andCNOcycles, Rev. Mod. Phys.83, 195 (2011).   
10] N.Itoh，H. Totsuji，S.Ichimaru，and H.E.DeWitt，Enhancementofthermonuclearreaction rates due to strong screening. II - Ionic mixtures, The Astrophys. J. 234, 1079 (1979).   
11] D.L.Bleueletal.，MethodforDetectionof Nuclear-Plasma Interactions ina $^ \mathrm { 1 3 4 }$ Xe-DopedExploding Pusheratthe National Ignition Facility, Plasma and Fusion Research 11, 3401075 (2016).   
12] S.Helmrich，K. Spenneberg,and A.Palffy，Coupling highly excited nuclei to the atomic shell in dense astrophysical plasmas, Phys. Rev. C 90, 015802 (2014).   
13] A.Palffy，W. Scheid,and Z.Harman，Theory of nuclear excitation by electron capture for heavy ions, Phys. Rev.A 73, 012715 (2006).   
14] M. Morita,Nuclear Excitation by Electron Transition and Its Application to Uranium 235 Separation, Progress of Theoretical Physics 49, 1574 (1973), https://academic.oup.com/ptp/article-pdf/49/5/1574/54   
15]R.Gallino et al.,Evolution and nucleosynthesis in lowmass asymptotic giant branch stars. II. Neutron capture and the s-process, The Astrophys. J. 497, 388 (1998).   
16] M. Mosconi,M. Heil, F. Kappeler,R. Plag,and A. Mengoni,Neutron physics of the Re/Os clock. II.The $( n , n ^ { ' } )$ cross section of $^ \mathrm { 1 8 7 }$ Os at 30 keV neutron energy, Phys.Rev.C 82, 015803 (2010).   
[17]K.Fujii et al.，Neutron physics of the re/os clock.iii. 186,187,188Os,RvC84 (). resonance analyses and stellar $( n , \gamma )$ cross sections of   
[18]I. Lee and A. Diaz-Torres, Coherence dynamics in low-energy nuclear fusion, Physics Letters B 827,136970 (2022).   
[19]A.A.Dzhioev，A.I.Vdovin，G.Martinez-Pinedo, J.Wambach，and C. Stoyanov，Thermal quasiparticle random-phase approximation with Skyrme interactions and supernova neutral-current neutrino-nucleus reactions,Phys. Rev. C 94, 015805 (2016).   
[20] A.A. Dzhioev,K. Langanke,G. Martinez-Pinedo,A. I. Vdovin,and C. Stoyanov, Unblocking of stellar electron capture for neutron-rich N=50 nuclei at finite temperature,Phys.Rev.C 101,025805 (2020).   
[21] A. B. Balantekin and N. Takigawa, Quantum tunneling in nuclear fusion,Rev.Mod. Phys.70, 77 (1998).   
[22] R.Thompson，A.Ikeda,R.Sheline,J. Cunnane, S.Yates,and P.Daly，Levels of $^ \mathrm { 1 8 8 }$ Ospopulated in the $^ \mathrm { 1 8 9 }$ Os(d, t) $^ \mathrm { 1 8 8 }$ Os reaction and in the decay of 41h $^ \mathrm { 1 8 8 }$ Ir, Nuclear Physics A 245, 444 (1975).   
[23]L.C.Chamon,B.V.Carlson,L.R.Gasques,D.Pereira, C.De Conti,M.A.G.Alvarez,M.S.Hussein,M.A. Candido Ribeiro,E. S. Ross, and C.P. Silva, Toward a global description of the nucleus-nucleus interaction, Phys. Rev. C 66,014610 (2002).   
[24] National Nuclear Data Center, informationextractedfrom the NuDat database, https://www.nndc.bnl.gov/nudat/.   
[25] G.Gosselin and P. Morel, Enhanced nuclear level decay in hot dense plasmas, Phys. Rev. C 70,064603 (2004).   
[26] G.Gosselin,V.Meot，andP.Morel,Modifiednuclearlevel lifetime in hot dense plasmas, Phys. Rev. C 76, 044611 (2007).   
[27] C.J.Chiara,J.J.Carroll，M.P.Carpenter，J.P. Greene,D.J.Hartley，R.V.F.Janssens,G.J.Lane, J.C.Marsh，D.A.Matters,M.Polasik，J.Rzadkiewicz,D.Seweryniak, S. Zhu, S.Bottoni,A.B.Hayes, and S.A.Karamian, Isomer depletion as experimental evidence of nuclear excitation by electron capture, Nature 554, 216 (2018).   
[28] S.Gargiulo,I. Madan，and F.Carbone,Nuclear   
90/49xitatibrdfbyelectroncaptureinexcitedions, Phys. Rev. Lett.128, 212502 (2022).   
[29] C.Dasso，S. Landowne,and A. Winther，Channelcouplingeffectsinheavy-ion fusionreactions, Nuclear Physics A 405, 381 (1983).