information of the hyperspectral cameras.For instance,the far-range platforms and airborne and spaceborne systems have deficient spatial resolution information compared to the closeranged systems.The sensors,which have a spatial resolution of $1 \mathrm { m }$ [334],are not suitable for detecting infected/diseased plants.The higher the distance willbe,the lower the sensitivity of the sensors will be.Although some studies have attempted to conduct transfer-learning-based studies at different scales, sufficient studies should be conducted to comprehend the scalability issue of close-range,greenhouse,commercial fields,and remote imaging.The camera calibration is also a vital parameter for mapping the spectral information [15], [335]. Therefore, with advanced sensor technologies,platforms,and algorithms for plant disease detection and diagnosis,it is anticipated that hyperspectral imaging could be an essential tool to analyze plant disease,phenotype,and genotypes.This will improve the applications for high-throughput studies.

Accurate detection of the infested pathogen remains unresolved as less attention is paid to biochemical analysis.Therefore,to obtain more insights about the plant pathogen,higher spatial resolution data and soil,climate,and field information could be helpful. Computer analysts must have knowledge of plant diseases,and plant pathologists must have knowledge of computer science,image analysis,machine learning,and so on. In short,a good team of researchers and thorough study can help developdisease detectionmethods.

Another current issue of the hyperspectral imaging technique is processing a large amount of information. Machine-learningand deep-learning-based algorithms are used to preprocess the data for disease detection and analysis. Employing parallel processing,batch processing,and hardware acceleration could solve these computational challenges and provide a real-time analysis asa viable solution. Currently,the price ofhyperspectral cameras is very high,which limits the application for small-scale farmers.Hyperspectral data analysis can also be improved if optical sensors and 3-D structure measurement techniques can be combined[15]. Thiswill help to obtain 3-D information on the plant organs and pathogens.

To conclude,hyperspectral imaging has advanced plant disease detection ina great way.However, the current challenges need to be addressed to advance in the field significantly.With the advancements in sensor technologies,computational methods,and real-time large-scale/real-world applications,hyperspectral imaging can transform the traditional approach to manage plant health and improve food security and environmental sustainability.

# REFERENCES

[1]R.N.Strange and P.R.Scott,“Plant disease:A threat to global food security,Annu.Rev.Phytopathol.,vol.43,pp.83-116,2005.   
[2]S.F.Syed-Ab-Rahman,M.H.Hesamian,andM.Prasad,“Citrusdisease detection and classification using end-to-end anchor-based deep learning model,Appl.Intell,vol.52,no.1,pp.927-938,2022.   
[3]K.Golhani,S.K.Balasundram,G.Vadamalai,andB.Pradhan,“Areview ofneural networks in plant disease detection using hyperspectral data,” Inf.Process.Agriculture,vol.5,no.3,pp.354-371,2018.   
[4] The Future of Food and Agriculture-Trendsand Challenges,vol.296. Rome,Italy:Food and AgricultureOrganization of theUnited Nations, 2017.   
[5]R.Rayhana,G.Xiao,and Z.Liu,“Internet of Things empowered smartgreenhousefarming,IEEEJ.RadioFreq.Identif.,vol.4,no.3, pp.195-211,Sep.2020.   
[6]R.Rayhana,G.G.Xiao,and Z.Liu,“Printed sensor technologies for monitoringapplicationsin smart farming:Areview,IEEE Trans.Instrum.Meas.,vol.70,2021,Art.no.9513419.   
[7]A.Lowe,N.Harison,and A.P.French,“Hyperspectral image analysis techniques for the detection and classification of the early onset of plant disease and stress,Plant Methods,vol.13,no.1,pp.1-12, 2017. [8]J.Chen etal.,“Digital cameraimaging system simulation,”IEEE Trans. ElectronDevices,vol.56,no.11,pp.2496-2505,Nov.009.   
[9]A.-K.Mahlein,“Plant disease detection by imaging sensors-Parallels andspecific demands for precision agricuitureand plant phenotyping," PlantDis.,vol.100,no.2,pp.241-251,2016.   
[10]A.V.ZublerandJ.-Y.Yoon,“Proximalmethods forplant stress detection using optical sensors and machine learning,Biosensors,vol.1O,no.12, 2020,Art. no.193.   
[11]D.Allen,“How do smartphone cameras work?” Android Police,2023. Accessed:Aug.4,2023.[Online].Available:https://www.androidpolice. com/   
[12]P.Pandey,Y.Ge,V.Stoerger,andJ.C.Schnable,“Highthroughputin vivo analysis of plant leaf chemical properties using hyperspectral imaging, Front.PlantSci.,vol.8,2017,Art.no.1348.   
[13]A.Khorsandi,A.Hemmat,S.A.Mireei,R.Amirfattahi,and P.Ehsanzadeh,“Planttemperature-based indices using infrared thermography for detecting water status in sesame under greenhouse conditions,Agricultural Water Manage.,vol.204,pp.22-233,2018.   
[14]A.Terentev,V.Dolzhenko,A.Fedotov,andD.Eremenko,“Current state of hyperspectral remote sensing for early plant disease detection: A review,Sensors,vol.22,no.3,2022,Art.no.757.   
[15]S.Thomasetal.,“Benefitsof hyperspectral imagingforplant disease detection and plant protection:A technical perspective,”J.Plant Dis. Protection,vol.125,no.1,pp.5-20,2018.   
[16]N.Zhang,G.Yang,Y.Pan,X.Yang,L.Chen,andC.Zhao,“Areview ofadvanced technologiesand development forhyperspectral-based plant disease detectionin the past three decades,Remote Sens.,vol.12,no.19, 2020,Art.no.3188.   
[17]A.Cheshkova,“Areviewof hyperspectral image analysis techniques for plant disease detection and identification,”Vavilov J. Genet. Breeding, vol.26,no.2,2022,Art. no.202.   
[18]G.EIMasryandD.-W.Sun,“Principlesofhyperspectralimaging technology”in Hyperspectral Imaging for Food Quality Analysisand Control.Amsterdam，The Netherlands:Elsevier,2010, pp.3-43.   
[19] D.Mengu,A. Tabassum,M.Jarrahi,and A. Ozcan,“Snapshot multispectral imaging usinga difractiveoptical network,”Light:Sci.Appl., vol.12,no.1,2023,Art.no.86.   
[20]P.Mishra,M.S.M.Asaari,A.Herrero-Langreo,S.Lohumi,B.Diezma, andP.Scheunders,“Closerange hyperspectral imaging of plants:A review,Biosyst.Eng.,vol.164,pp.49-67,2017.   
[21]J.Zhang et al.,“Monitoring plant diseases and pests through remote sensing technology:Areview,Comput.Electron.Agriculture,vol.165, 2019,Art.no.104943.   
[22]G.Elmasry,M.Kamruzzaman,D.-W.Sun,andP.Allen,“Principles andapplicationsof hyperspectral imaging inquality evaluation of agrofood products:A review,Crit.Rev.Food Sci.Nutr.,vol.52,no.11, pp.999-1023,2012.   
[23]V.Sowmya,K.Soman,andM.Hassaballah“Hyperspectral image: Fundamentalsandadvances,in Recent Advances inComputer Vision. NewYork,NY,USA:Springer,2019,pp.401-424.   
[24]J.Behmann,A.-K.Mahlein,T.Rumpf,C.Romer,andL.Plumer,“A review of advanced machine learning methods for the detection of biotic stress in precision crop protection,Precis.Agriculture,vol.16,no.3, pp.239-260,2015.   
[25]J.Penuelasand I.Filella,“Visible and near-infrared reflectance techniques fordiagnosingplantphysiological status,Trends Plant Sci.,vol.3, no.4,pp.151-156,1998.   
[26]C.Nguyen,V.Sagan,M.Maimaitiyiming,M.Maimaitijiang,S.Bhadra, andM.T.Kwasniewski,"Early detection of plant viral disease using hyperspectral imaginganddeeplearning,Sensors,vol.21,no.3,021, Art. no. 742.   
[27]Q. Gu et al.,“Early detection of tomato spotted wilt virus infection in tobacco using the hyperspectral imaging technique and machine learning algorithms,”Comput.Electron.Agriculture,vol.167,2019, Art. no. 105066.