TABLEI REQUIREMENTS OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE FOR THE AGRICULTURAL APPLICATIONS   

<table><tr><td>Requirements</td><td>Description</td></tr><tr><td>Agilty</td><td>Theabilitytorespondquicklytoaconstantlychangingenvironment.Thisfeatureisextremelyimportantastheagricultural environment is dynamicin nature,that is it frequently changes over time.</td></tr><tr><td>Flexibility</td><td>Theability tobeflexibleenough toaccommodatechangesand modifications tothesystemover time.Patternssuchas MVC and microservices provide the flexibility to modify and add functionality.</td></tr><tr><td>Complexity</td><td>Agoodarchitecturalpattrnshouldnot introduceunecessarycomplexityintothesystem.Paterssuchasmonolithicarchitecture canbe simple,butcanbecomecomplexastheappicationgrows.Patterns,suchas Microservicescan bemorecomplex to manage,but providegreaterflexibility.</td></tr><tr><td>Real-time processing</td><td>Thesoftwarearchitectureshould becapableof processingdata inreal-timetoenablequickdecision-makingandresponseto changingconditions.</td></tr><tr><td>Deployment</td><td>Thiscanbeaproblemependingonowaaternisimplementedspeciallyforlagerplations.Asmallangeinaomp- onent can afect theapplication partiallyor completely,necessitating a partial or completeredeployment.</td></tr><tr><td>Adaptability</td><td>the ability to quickly adapt to complex, dynamic,and often chaotic environments.</td></tr><tr><td>Maintainability</td><td>It istheability of a system toadapt to changeswith ease.</td></tr><tr><td>Reusability Testability</td><td>Itistheabilityofcomponentsand subsystemstobereused in otherapplications. It istheabilitytoeasilytestcomponentsbelongingtospecificlayersinthearchitectureterlaerscanbemockedosubedTo</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>isolatetestingitinsinsmpoentevelorockprestatioompontonselasockesiss layertotestspecificscreenfunctionalityPaternssuchasMVCandlayeredarchitectureprovideclearseparationofconcerns, makingiteasiertotestcode.</td></tr><tr><td>Interoperability</td><td>It istheabilityofasystemorsystemstocommunicatewithandexchangeinformationwithotherexteralsystemswritenandun bythirdparties. It refers to how simple it is for system administrators to manage the application.</td></tr><tr><td>Manageability Reliability</td><td>Itistheabilityof asystemtoremain operational overtime.</td></tr><tr><td>Performance</td><td>It indicates theresponsiveness of asystem to execute any action within a given time interval.</td></tr><tr><td>Scalability</td><td>Itisapropertyofsystemtatallowsittoandleanincreasingamountoforkbyadngresourcestotesstem,ieeability</td></tr><tr><td>Modularity</td><td>to change the size or scale of the system.</td></tr><tr><td>Cost</td><td>Thesoftwarearchitectureshouldbemodular,alowingforeasyintegrationofnewcomponentsandfunctionalitiesasneeded Cost of the system in terms of time to market, expected project lifetime, and legacy usage.</td></tr><tr><td>Security</td><td>It refers to asystem&#x27;sability to prevent malicious or unintentional actions that are not intended.</td></tr><tr><td>Portability</td><td>It is theability of a system to run in a variety of computing environments.</td></tr><tr><td>Fault tolerance</td><td>Itistheability to continue operating after a fault has occurred.</td></tr><tr><td>Marketability</td><td>It refers to howa system isused in relation to market competition.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr></table>

The robot canbe equipped with various end-effectors,such as grippers,cutting tools,and sprayers,to perform specific tasks.

# III.REQUIREMENTS AND CHALLENGES

The level of uncertainty in the agricultural environment is significantly higher than in other robotics applications.The agricultural climate is very complex in nature,meaning that it changes at all times.As a result,agricultural robots rely not only on advanced technology,but also on appropriate robot architecture,supported infrastructures,and services,such as communication between subsystems and data sharing and reuse. The unavailability of suitable robot architecture thatcan handle the existence of uncertainty in the agricultural environment may be one of the causes of this phenomenon.

# A. Requirements for Agricultural Robot Software Architecture

The overall requirements for the agricultural applications are listedin Table Ibelow,which should be considered while making arobot architectural pattern.

# B. Challenges in Developing Agricultural Robot Software Architecture

There are some challenges listed in the Table IIin developingagricultural robot software architecture considering all the requirements are as follows.

# IV.CHARACTERIZATION OFCURRENT ROBOTIC ARCHITECTURESANDPRINCIPLES

Robot architectural patterns define the overall structure and organization of a software system within the robot(s),and provide a blueprint for the development team to follow.In general, eacharchitectural pattern has its own tradeoffs,and the choice of pattern will depend on the specific requirements of the system being developed.Itis necessary to look for specific characteristics in architectural patterns that are appropriate for agricultural applications.Because warehouse or manufacturing-related architectural patterns may not be appropriate for agricultural applications,as it is highly dependent on environmental conditions, specific tasks,and goals,and because the agricultural field's environment is highly dynamic,uncertain,and unpredictable in nature.

# A. Categorization Based on Functionality

There are several ways to categorize robotic software architectural patterns,depending on the criteria or characteristics that are being used.For example,it can be categories based on functionality of the robot and how it performs its tasks.Examples include:

1）ControlArchitecture Versus Cognitive Architecture:Control architecture focuses on the control of robotic systems, includinglow-level motor control and high-level planningand decision-making,while cognitive architecture focuses on the