$\frac { 2 } { 3 }$ of the sound and punctured fruits to the training set, while the rest $\textstyle { \frac { 1 } { 3 } }$ used for external validation.We calculated the imagelevel iPLS-DA models considering different interval sizes,and weperformed an image reconstruction by evaluating the most frequentlyselected variables.

Finally,we applied the automated annotation procedure developed considering year images from 2022 to the hyperspectral images acquired in 2O23 as an additional external validation. The proposed approach allowed to correctly select the pixels ascribable to BMSB related damages on 212 out of 322 images of punctured cv. Abate Fetel pears $( 6 5 \% )$ and on 273outof 352 images of punctured cv.Williams pears $( 7 7 \% )$ .Concerning the detection of different kind of damages,such as bruises,Lee et al. [53] reached $92 \%$ accuracy while Li et al. [54] reached $9 5 \%$ accuracy using near-infrared hyperspectral imaging on pear fruits.A similar annotation procedure was proposed on apples inFerrari etal. [22],inwhich $92 \%$ and $94 \%$ efficiency values were obtained for“Golden Delicious”and“Pink Lady”apple varieties,respectively.

Starting from the ROIs of the annotated punctured areas,it will be possible to build a dataset of representative spectra belonging to both punctured and sound regions, which represents a crucial step for the development of more effective pixel-level classification models and the selection of relevant spectral regions ascribable to BMSB punctures.Indeed, the selection of spectral variables able to identifyBMSB punctures isa key step in the implementation of MSI systems,which are more suitable for postharvest sorting lines in terms of computational time and lower costs of optical components.

# VIII. CONCLUSION

In this article,we highlighted the main steps taken in the HALY.ID project to implement a system aimed at automating the monitoring of BMSB pests in orchards.Specifically，we detailed computer vision techniques for effectively detecting the BMSB,primarily on RGB imagescaptured by UAVs,as well as utilizing spectral imaging as a complementary strategy. Wealso proposed an edge-based smart IoT sticky trap with integrated cameras and running resource efficient algorithms to be used in conjunction with the entire monitoring system to estimate population of specific invasive insect species.Finally, we successfully applied computer vision algorithms to spectral imaging to detect punctures on harvested pears,which can be integrated into a fruit sorting system to optimize food quality on the shelves of supply to customers.In addition,we developed a client-server application to enrich the dataset and enhance the trained models within this system.

As next steps,it will be necessary to effectively counteract BMSB by leveraging the aforementioned techniques to monitor and control their population.A comprehensive monitoring system,coupled with a decision-process model to actively combat this pest, is essential for successful pest management.

# REFERENCES

[2]A.L.Nielsenetal.,"Life historyoftheinvasive species Halyomorphahalys (Hemiptera:Pentatomidae) innortheastern United States,Ann.Ent.Soc. America,vol.102,no.4,pp.608-616,2009.   
[3]M.Barisellietal.,"Distributionanddamagecausedby Halyomorphahalys in Italy,”Eppo Bull.,vol.46,no.2,pp.332-334,2016.   
[4]L.Almstedt etal.,“Technological innovations inagriculture forscouting Halyomorphahalysinorchards,inProc.Int.Conf.Distrib.Comput.Smart Syst.Internet Things,2023,pp.702-709.   
[5]K.Espinoza etal.,"Combination of image processing and artificial neural networks as a novel approach for the identification of Bemisia tabaci andFrankliniella occidentalisonsticky traps ingreenhouse agriculture,” Comput.Electron.Agriculture,vol.127,pp.495-505,2016.   
[6]M.Valan et al.,“Automated taxonomic identification of insects with expert-level accuracyusing effective feature transfer fromconvolutional networks,Systematic Biol.,vol.68,no.6,pp.876-895,2019.   
[7]C.Wen and D. Guyer,"Image-based orchard insect automated identificationand classification method,”Comput.Electron.Agriculture,vol.89, pp.110-115,2012.   
[8]C.-J.Chen,Y.-Y.Huang,Y.-S.Li,C.-Y.Chang,andY.-M.Huang,“AnIoT basedsmartagriculturalsystemforpestsdetection,IEEEAcces,vol.8, pp.180750-180761,2020.   
[9]Y.He,Z. Zhou,L.Tian,Y.Liu,and X.Luo,“Brown rice planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens(Stal)）detectionbased on deep learning,”Precis. Agriculture,vol.21,no.6,pp.1385-1402,2020.   
[10]W.Li et al.,“Field detection of tiny pests from sticky trap images using deeplearning in agricultural greenhouse,Comput.Electron.Agriculture, vol.183,2021,Art.no.106048.   
[11]A.Albanese,M.Nardello,and D.Brunelli,“Automated pest detection withDNNon theedge for precisionagriculture,IEEE Trans.Emerg.Sel. TopicsCircuits Syst.,vol.11,no.3,pp.458-467,Sep.2021.   
[12]R.Trufelea,M.Dimoiu,L.Ichim,andD.Popescu,“Detection of harmful insects for orchard using convolutional neural networks,”UPB Sci.Bull. Ser.C,vol.83,no.4,pp.85-96,2021.   
[13]L.Ichim,R. Ciciu,and D.Popescu,“Using drones and deep neural networksto detect Halyomorpha halysin ecological orchards,in Proc. IEEEInt.Geosci.RemoteSens.Symp.,2022,pp.437-440.   
[14]A.Sava,L.Ichim,and D.Popescu,“DetectionofHalyomorpha halys using neural networks,”in Proc.2022 8th Int.Conf.Control Decis.Inf. Technol. (CoDIT),2022,pp.437-442.   
[15]DJI,“Maryland biodiversity dataset,”2022.[Online].Available:https: //www.marylandbiodiversity.com/   
[16]G.Jocheretal.,“ultralytics/yolov5:V7.0-YOLOv5 sotarealtime instance segmentation,2022.   
[17]D.Giannetti,N.Patelli,L.Palazzetti,F.Betti Sorbelli,C.M.Pinotti,andL. Maistrello,“Firstuse ofunmanned aerial vehicles to monitorHalyomorpha halysand recognizeitusing artificial intelligence,”Pest Manage.Sci., vol.80,pp.4074-4084,2024.   
[18]F.BettiSorbelli,L.Palazzetti,and C.M.Pinotti “YOLO-based detection ofHalyomorpha halysin orchardsusing RGB cameras and drones,” Comput.Electron.Agriculture,vol.213,2023,Art.no.108228.   
[19]F.Betti Sorbelli,L.Palazzetti,andC.M.Pinotti,“Preliminary results for Halyomorpha halys monitoringrelying onacustom dataset,”in Proc.Int. WorkshopMetrol.Agr.For.,2023,pp.363-368.   
[20]F.Beti Sorbelli,L.Palazzetti,and C.M.Pinoti,“A drone-based automated Halyomorpha halys scouting: A case study on orchard monitoring," inProc.IEEEInt.WorkshopMetrol.Agr.For.,2023,pp.380-385.   
[21]J.Li etal.,“Multispectral detection of skin defects of bi-colored peaches basedonvis-Nhyperspectral imagingPostharvestiol.Technol., vol.112,pp.121-133,2016.   
[22]C.Ferrari,G.Foca,R.Calvini,andA.Ulrici,“Fast exploration and classification of large hyperspectral image datasets for early bruise detection onapples,Chemometrics Intell.Lab.Syst.,vol.146,pp.108-119,2015.   
[23]J.F.INtrambirwe,W.J.PeroldandU.L.Opaa"Casifcatioeaing of latent bruise damage to apples using shortwave infrared hyperspectral imaging,Sensors,vol.21,no.15,21,Art.no.4990.   
[24]P.Baranowski et al.,“Supervised classification of bruised apples with respect tothetimeafter bruising onthebasisof hyperspectral imaging data”Posth.Biol.Tech.,vol.86,pp.249-258,2013.   
[25]Y.Lu,Y.Huang,andR.Lu,“Innovative hyperspectral imaging-based techniques forquality evaluationof fruitsand vegetables:Areview,Appl. Sci.,vol.7,no.2,2017,Art.no.189.   
[26]M.Alamar et al.,“Hyperspectral imaging techniques for qualityassessment in fresh horticultural produce and prospects for measurement ofmechanical damage,in Mechanical Damage in Fresh Horticultural Produce:Measreent,alisdtrolrlin 2024,pp.69-90.