LIME and Grad-CAM,help incrop disease detection by making AI model predictions more transparent,showing which features orimage regions contribute to disease identification, thereby improving trust and decision making in ginger disease and pest management.

# E. Generative AI

Generative AI is currently being explored to overcome the limitations and scarcity faced in well-annotated datasets [99], [100]. The generative AI can generate new content, ideas,or solutions based on patterns learned from the existing data. The use of generative AI techniques,such as StyleGAN [101],a variation of generative adversarial networks [1O2],bidirectional encoder representations from transformers [1o3],andDALL-E [104] can be leveraged for disease detection in ginger plants. The use of generative AI offers the potential to generate realistic ginger disease and pest image datasets for different scenarios, thusaccelerating the deployment ofAIoTfor ginger production.

# F.Hyperspectral Imaging

The use of HSI for the early detection of nonvisible diseases in ginger plants opens up several research issues.This includes the design and development of field-portable hyperspectral technologies with minimum postprocessing,which is expected to attract several research interests.For instance,a smartphone HSI technique was presented in [1O5],which offers a low-cost solution with portability and user-friendly. The research on identifying the exact bands related to different diseaseswill pave the way for the development of specific HSI cameras for ginger diseases. This will lead to lesser costs in the acquisition ofthe HSI cameras.The combination of HSI with XAI is expected toattract more research interest in disease detection in ginger plants. Similar to what has been explored in [1O6]. These innovative approaches to assessing the quality characteristics of the rhizomes can bedeveloped.

# G. Data Collection

Thereis currently a lack of adequate real-world wellannotated datasets for ginger farming.Hence,more historical dataareneeded.Thisincludesdatarelated to soil conditions, environmental factors, crop health, growth patterns, field conditions,disease outbreaks,farming practices,and weather patterns. More research work is needed in the deployment of IoTdevices, remote sensing,and deployment of farm management software forthe collection of real-world data.

# IX.CONCLUSION

In this article,the common diseases that affect ginger plants have been presented. Early disease detection in ginger plants remains an important criterion for high-yield production among small-and large-scale ginger farmers.The conventional ways of preventing diseases in ginger plants have been discussed.The emergence ofIoT and AI technology is providing more effective ways of preventing and detecting diseases in ginger plants. The application ofAIoTcan enable detection of the fungal,bacterial, viral,and nematode diseases in the soil,air,and various parts of the plant.The use of smartphones,drones,and robots in combination with AI techniques,such as HSI,XAI,and IoT, isapromising solution for future ginger farmers for successful gingerproduction.

# REFERENCES

[1]N.H.Samrat,J.B.Johnson,S.White,M.Naiker,andP.Brown,“A rapidnon-destructive hyperspectralimagingdatamodelforthe prediction of pungent constituentsin dried ginger,Foods,vol.11,no.5,2022, Art. no. 649.   
[2]R.-H.Ma etal.,“A recent update on the multifaceted health benefits associated with ginger and its bioactivecomponents,”Food Function, vol.12,no.2,pp.519-542,2021.   
[3]K.P.Nair and K.P.Nair,“Production,marketing,and economics of ginger”in Turmeric(Curcuma longa L.）and Ginger (Zingiber officinaleRosc.)-World'sInvaluableMedicinal Spices:TheAgronomyand Economy ofTurmeric and Ginger.Cham,Switzerland:Springer,2019, pp.493-518.   
[4] P.Joshi and S.Khanal,“Production status,export analysis,and future prospects of ginger in Nepal,Arch.Agriculture Environ. Sci.,vol.6, no.2,pp.202-209,2021.   
[5]This Day,‘Devastating ginger diseaseoutbreak wreakseconomic havocin Kaduna,”Accessed:Mar.17,2024.[Online].Available:https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2023/09/25/devastatingginger-disease-outbreak-wreaks-economic-havoc-in-Kaduna/   
[6]M.Horita etal.,“Comprehensive control system for ginger bacterial wilt disease based onanaerobic soil disinfestation,Agronomy,vol.13,no.7, 2023,Art. no.1791.   
[7]M.J.Guji,H.T.Yetayew,andE.D.Kidanu,“Yield loss of ginger (zingiberofficinale）due to bacterial wilt (ralstonia solanacearum） in different wilt management systems inEthiopia,"Agriculture Food Secur., vol.8,2019,Art.no.5.   
[8]A.C.Hayward and K.G.Pegg,“Bacterial wilt of gingerin Queensland: Reappraisalofadiseaseoutbreak,Australas.PlantPathol.,vol.42, pp.235-239,2013.   
[9]O.Kolesnikova,M.G.Yigezu,A.L.Tonja,M.M.Woldeyohannis,G. Sidorov,and A.Gelbukh,“Ginger disease detection using acomputer visionpre-trainedmodel,"inInnovations inMachine and DeepLearning: CaseStudies and Applications.Cham,Switzerland:Springer,2023, pp.419-432.   
[10]V.Singh,N.Sharma,andS.Singh,“A review of imaging techniques for plantdiseasedetection,Artif.Intell.Agriculture,vol.4,pp.229-242, 2020.   
[11]M.H. Saleem,J.Potgieter,andK.M.Arif,“Plant disease detection and classificationbydeeplearning,Plantsvol.8,no.11,9,Art..468.   
[12] M. Ray et al.，“Fungal disease detection in plants: Traditional assays, novel diagnostic techniques and biosensors,”Biosensors Bioelectron., vol.87,pp.708-723,2017.   
[13]F.Martinelli etal.，“Advanced methodsof plant disease detection:A review”Agron.Sustain.Develop.，vol.35，pp.1-25, 2015.   
[14]H.Durmus,E.O.Gunes,and M.Kirci,“Disease detection on the leaves of the tomato plants by usingdeep learning,”in Proc.6th Int.Conf. Agro-geoinform.,2017,pp.1-5.   
[15]K.P.Ferentinos,“Deep learning models for plant disease detection and diagnosis,Comput.Electron.Agriculture,vol.145,pp.311-318, 2018.   
[16]S.Thomas et al.,“Benefits of hyperspectral imaging for plant disease detection and plant protection:A technical perspective,J.Plant Dis. Protection,vol.125,pp.5-20,2018.   
[17]L.Li,S.Zhang,and B.Wang,“Plant disease detection and classification by deep learning—Areview,IEEE Access,vol.9,pp.56683-56698, 2021.   
[18]A.Ramcharan,K.Baranowski,P.McCloskey,J.Legg,D.P.Hughes,and B.Ahmed,"Deep learning for image-based cassava disease detection,” Front.PlantSci.,vol.8,2017,Art.no.293051.   
[19]S.P.Mohanty,D.P.Hughes,and M.Salathé,“Using deep learning for image-based plant disease detection,”Front.Plant Sci.,vol.7,2016, Art.no.215232.