TABLEI SUMMARY OFGINGER DISEASES AND PESTS [48]   

<table><tr><td>Diseases</td><td>Causes</td><td>Favorable Conditions</td><td>Symptoms</td><td>Outcome</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">Fungal Diseases Pythiumspp.,Fusarium High soil moisture, high</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>spp.,and Rosellinia spp.</td><td>temperaturesabove30C, poordrainage,and</td><td>Degeneration of rhizomes into a black,putrefying mass leaf tips,sheaths,margins,and</td><td>ginger plant</td></tr><tr><td>Fusarium Yellows</td><td>Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. zingiberi</td><td>nematode infestation Warm and humid, poor drainage</td><td>gradually whole leaves turn yellow Leaf yellowing,wilting,and arotten rhizome</td><td>Degeneration of plant healthand reduced yield</td></tr><tr><td>Leaf spots</td><td>Phyllostictaspp., Colletotrichum spp., Helminthosporium spp., Cercospora spp.and</td><td>Overhead watering, poor air circulation,and high humidity</td><td>Small,circular,browntodarkbrown spots with yellow halos on the leaves.Spots may merge to form largerlesions.</td><td>Degeneration of plant health and reduced yield</td></tr><tr><td>Storage rot</td><td>Septoriaspp. Pythiumspp.,Fusarium spp.， Aspergillus spp.,and Penicilumspp.</td><td>High soil moisture, high temperatures above 30C, poordrainage,and nematode infestation</td><td>Colored,wtery,ushy,nd foul-smelling rhizomes</td><td>Reduced shelf lifeof stored rhizomes</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">Ralstonia solanacearum High soil moisture, poor</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>drainage and nematode infestation</td><td>Progressive yellowing and wilting from the lower leaves to the whole plant</td><td>Milky exudate of the rhizomes when cut</td></tr><tr><td>Storage rot</td><td>Ralstonia solanacearum, Erwinia spp.</td><td>High temperatures above 30C,poordrainage,and nematode infestation</td><td>Colored,atery,shy foul-smelling rhizomes</td><td>Reduced shelf life of stored rhizomes</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">Nematode Diseases Warm and moist soil, sandy Stunting,chlorosis,poor tillering,and soils</td></tr><tr><td>Ginger mosaic</td><td>Cucumber mosaic virus</td><td>Viral Diseases High humidity,warm</td><td>necrosis of leaves Yellowish and dark-green mosaic on</td><td>soaked areas Severe reduction of</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>(CMV)</td><td>temperatures</td><td>leaves,and stunted leaves and rhizomes at the late stage of infection</td><td>rhizome yield</td></tr><tr><td>Chlorotic fleck</td><td>Chlorotic fleck virus (CFV）</td><td>High humidity</td><td>Light green tobright yellow interveinal chlorotic flecks</td><td>Stunted growth and yield reduction</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">Ginger Pest Conogethes punctiferalis 30-33Cand relative</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>humidity range 60%-90%, active from July to October</td><td>Yellowing and drying of leaves and bore hole of infested pseudo stems.</td><td>Damaged ginger plants.</td></tr><tr><td>Rhizome scale</td><td>Aspidiella hartii</td><td>Dry weather</td><td>Shriveled and desiccated rhizomes affecting.</td><td>Rhizomes dries and cannot germinate</td></tr><tr><td>Leaf roller</td><td>Ancistroides folus larvae, and larvae of several other moths,</td><td>Temperature 26-35℃, relative humidity 41%-100%</td><td>Leaves become folded or rolled longitudinally.</td><td>Complete defoliation of ginger plants</td></tr><tr><td>Rhizome fly</td><td>Calobataspp.</td><td>Warmand humid weather</td><td>Yellowing of plants and rotting of rhizomes.</td><td>Drying of aerial plants and rotting of rhizomes Large holes in rhizomes</td></tr><tr><td>White grub</td><td>Phyllophagaspp.</td><td>Warm and humid weather.</td><td>Yellowing and wilting of shoots.</td><td>and reduce market value of produce.</td></tr><tr><td>Thrips</td><td>Family Thripdae</td><td>Warm and humid weather.</td><td>Leaves roll up.</td><td>Young leaves and shoot wilt and dry out.</td></tr></table>

# IV.DISEASEMANAGEMENT

Ginger disease management has been discussed in the literature [49], [50], [51], [52], [53], [54], [55], [56],[57]. Ginger disease management can be classified into the conventional methods and smart precision methods.

# A.Conventional Methods

Conventional methods of disease management in ginger involve practices that have been traditionally used and rely primarily on established agricultural techniques,chemical applications, and biological controls.

1） Cultural Practices: Cultural practices involve the use of crop rotation [58], [59], [60], sanitation [61], intercropping [62], [63],and soil management [64] methods. In crop rotation, ginger cultivationis done by rotatingwith nonhost crops that are not susceptible to ginger-specific diseases.For instance,acycle of 2-4 years of rotation of ginger crops and other crops,such as paddy,potato, and mustard, was reported in [59]. This helps in reducing pathogen load in the soil, thereby disrupting the life cycle of soilborne pathogens. This requires good management from the farmers.Aside from crop rotation, intercropping, which is the practice of growing two or more crops in proximity,offers several benefits to ginger cultivation [62], [63].This is due to some factors,such as improvement of soil structure,reduction in the spread of soilborne diseases,and reduction in light intensity [65]. The use of sanitation involves maintaininga high level of hygiene to prevent the spread of diseases [61]. The infected plants are destroyed, while tools and equipment are properly cleaned to avoid cross contamination. In the soil management method, good drainage systems are put in place to avoid water logging [64]. This helps prevent root and rhizome rot.Effective irrigation method,such as drip or furrow irrigation,which delivers water directly to the root zone, helpsreduce the spread of fungal diseases.While these cultural practices have proved to be successful,ginger