-SYSTEMMESSAGE

Pleaseactasaimpartialjdgeadevaatetalityfteesposesprodedytsistantstoeuseestiodispldlowou shouldcooetsatatfllothersscosdwrstesuestoeteoueaaiooldodeacto suchaseeecptiieilo responsesndprovidashortexplanationAvoidanypositionbiasesandesurethattheorderinhichtheresponseswerepresenteddesnot infuenceyoursioootlltenghfeespostofueeyrevauatiootfvoetameofthtsBe asobjectiveaossbleerongoueplatioutldcttllitat:sa better,"[B]]"ifassistantBisbetter,and"[[C]]"foratie.

# —USERMESSAGE

[User Question]   
{question}   
[The Start of AssistantA's Answer] {answer_a}   
[TheEnd of Assistant A'sAnswer] [The Start of Assistant B’sAnswer] {answer_b}   
[The End of Assistant B's Answer]

Table 14: Pairwise comparison prompt for baseline models.

# SYSTEMMESSAGE

PleaseactasanimpartialjudgeadvaatethualityfteresposeproviddynstantothuserquetiodispledelowYour evaluationsutis evaluationbyprovdngtplaatioesectieasposibAfterprovngyurexpationleasatethspoeale 1to10by strictly following this format:"[[rating]]",for example:"Rating:[5]]".

# USERMESSAGE

[Question]   
{question}   
[The Start of Assistant's Answer]   
{answer}   
[The End of Assistant's Answer]

Table 15: Single-response rating prompt for baseline models.

Youarea helpful and precise assistant for checking the quality of the feedback.   
TwopiecesoffedbackhavebeenprovidedfortesameresponsetoaparticularueryWichoeiseterwithgardtotheoects, comprehensiveness,and specificity to the query?   
[User'squery]   
{query}   
[The Assistant'sResponse]   
{response}   
[Feedback 1]   
{feedback1}   
[Feedback 2]   
{feedback2}

Please choose from the following options,and give out your reason in the next line

A:Feedback1is significantly better.   
B:Feedback 2is significantly better.   
C:Neither is significantly better.

Table 16: Prompt for GPT-4 to pick a better critique out of two.