Table 6:Reasoning steps generated by gpt-3.5-turbo when experience is included in the input prompt.This experience is the analysis onthe reasoning chain of Table $5$ With this experience in the prompt,we present five responses from the model and the final reasoning chain after finishing the second iteration of BoT.   

<table><tr><td>PromptofGameof24withexperience</td></tr><tr><td>Firstof all,Recall historical reasoning experience:</td></tr><tr><td>########The1-thReasoningChainwithComments########</td></tr><tr><td>Below isareasoningchain containing reasoning stepspresented in order:</td></tr><tr><td>tep</td></tr><tr><td>Step</td></tr><tr><td>Step Analysiepreo</td></tr><tr><td>Reaonnge secodinglb Advice:Try diferent operationsorcombinations of numbers to obtainanew numberthatis closer to24. RecommendationorRejectdescription:Reject.</td></tr><tr><td>Reasonin logical remainingnumbersareupdatedaccordingly.</td></tr><tr><td>Recommendation orReject description:Recommend. ReasoningStepreasoeitIetasotedfeasoSte lgicalifereo</td></tr><tr><td>1isdifferent. The remaining numbers are updated accordingly. ErrorReport: The computation in this step is incorrect.The correct computationshould be1*1=1.</td></tr><tr><td>Advice:Double-check the computationand make sure it isaccurate. Recommendation orReject description:Reject.</td></tr><tr><td>Confidencescore:0.7</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>##########################################</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>Fiveresponsesfromthegpt-3.5-turbo</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>Step1,Cureeelectesptiotedrgbs</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>Step1,Cuelectestiuteb7gs</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>Step1,Cueectesedgb6 Step1uote Step1Cureoedg</td></tr></table>

Table 7:An example of how BoT generates the next possble thought for the reasoning step $z _ { i }$