[74] Y.- F. Ma, L. Lu, H.- J. Zhang, and M. Li, "A user attention model for video summarization," in Proceedings of the tenth ACM international conference on Multimedia, 2002, pp. 533- 542. [75] Y.- F. Ma, X.- S. Hua, L. Lu, and H.- J. Zhang, "A generic framework of user attention model and its application in video summarization," IEEE transactions on multimedia, vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 907- 919, 2005. [76] R. Krishna, K. Hata, F. Ren, L. Fei- Fei, and J. Carlos Niebles, "Dense- captioning events in videos," in Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision, 2017, pp. 706- 715. [77] J. Wang, W. Jiang, L. Ma, W. Liu, and Y. Xu, "Bidirectional attentive fusion with context gating for dense video captioning," in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2018, pp. 7190- 7198. [78] C. Sun, A. Myers, C. Vondrick, K. Murphy, and C. Schmid, "Videobert: A joint model for video and language representation learning," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 2019, pp. 7464- 7473. [79] D. Zhao, Z. Xing, C. Chen, X. Xu, L. Zhu, G. Li, and J. Wang, "Seenomaly: Vision- based linting of gui animation effects against design- don't guidelines," in 2020 IEEE/ACM 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 2020, pp. 1286- 1297. [80] S. Feng, M. Xie, and C. Chen, "Efficiency matters: Speeding up automated testing with gui rendering inference," arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.05203, 2022. [81] L. Gomez, I. Neamtiu, T. Azim, and T. Millstein, "Reran: Timing- and touch- sensitive record and replay for android," in 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 2013, pp. 72- 81. [82] P. Krieter and A. Breiter, "Analyzing mobile application usage: generating log files from mobile screen recordings," in Proceedings of the 20th international conference on human- computer interaction with mobile devices and services, 2018, pp. 1- 10. [83] D. Nurmuradov and R. Bryce, "Caret- hm: recording and replaying android user sessions with heat map generation using ui state clustering," in Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 2017, pp. 400- 403. [84] L. Zhu and Y. Yang, "Aubert: Learning global- local video- text representations," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2020, pp. 8746- 8755. [85] Z. Zhang, Y. Shi, C. Yuan, B. Li, P. Wang, W. Hu, and Z.- J. Zha, "Object relational graph with teacher- recommended learning for video captioning," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2020, pp. 13278- 13288.