2.3. Sufficient Conditions for the class  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$ . In this section, we establish some sufficient conditions for the class  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$ . Below, we state a Lemma given by Jack [7], which is utilised in context of the class under consideration.

Lemma 2.22. [7] Lemma 1, p.470] Let  $\nu (z)$  be a non- constant analytic function in  $\mathbb{D}$ , such that  $\nu (0) = 0$ . If  $|\nu (z)|$  attains its maximum value on the circle  $|z| = r$  at a point  $z_0$ , then  $z_0\nu '(z_0) = k\nu (z_0)$ , where  $k$  is real and  $k \geq 1$ .

Theorem 2.23. Suppose  $0 \leq t \leq 1$  and let  $f \in \mathcal{A}$  satisfy the following differential inequality

$$
\left|t\left(1 + \frac{zf^{\prime\prime}(z)}{f^{\prime}(z)}\right) + (1 - t)\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)} -1\right|< \frac{1}{6} (3 + 2t),\quad z\in \mathbb{D}, \tag{2.12}
$$

then  $f \in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$ .

Proof. Consider an analytic function  $\nu (z)$  with  $\nu (0) = 0$ . Assume  $f \in \mathcal{A}$  such that

$$
\frac{zf'(z)}{f(z)} -1 = \frac{1}{2}\nu (z).
$$

We show that  $|\nu (z)| < 1$  in  $\mathbb{D}$ . Suppose on the contrary  $|\nu (z)| \geq 1$ , then by an application of Lemma 2.22 there exists  $z_0 \in \mathbb{D}$  such that for  $k \geq 1$ ,  $|\nu (z_0)| = 1$  and  $z_0\nu '(z_0) = k\nu (z_0)$ . Substituting  $\nu (z_0) = e^{\mu}$ ,  $- \pi < \mu \leq \pi$  leads to

$$
\begin{array}{l}{\left|t\left(1 + \frac{zf^{\prime\prime}(z)}{f^{\prime}(z)}\right) + (1 - t)\frac{zf^{\prime}(z)}{f(z)} -1\right|}\\ {= \left|t\left(1 + \frac{\nu(z_0)}{2} +\frac{k\nu(z_0)}{2 + \nu(z_0)}\right) + (1 - t)\left(1 + \frac{\nu(z_0)}{2}\right) - 1\right|}\\ {= \left|\frac{tk e^{i\mu}}{2 + e^{i\mu}} +\frac{e^{i\mu}}{2}\right|\geq \frac{1}{6} (3 + 2t).} \end{array}
$$

This is contradiction to the assumption given in [2.12]. Thus  $|\nu (z)| < 1$ , which means that  $z f'(z) / f(z)$  lies in the disc  $|(z f'(z) / f(z)) - 1| < 1 / 2$ . Hence in view of Lemma 2.5 (with  $a = 1$ ) required result is achieved.

For  $t = 1 / 2$ ,  $t = 0$  and  $t = 1$  in Theorem 2.23 we obtain the following corollary,

Corollary 2.24. Let  $f \in \mathcal{A}$  satisfy the following differential inequalities

(i)  $|(zf'(z) / f(z) + zf''(z) / f'(z)) - 1| < 4 / 3$ , or (ii)  $|(zf'(z) / f(z)) - 1| < 1 / 2$ , or (iii)  $|zf''(z) / f'(z)| < 5 / 6$ ,

then  $f \in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$ .

# CONCLUSION

In the present investigation, we introduce a class of analytic functions associated with certain parabolic region. In particular, we have considered a case when parabola is lying majorly in the left half plane and symmetric about real axis. The other cases namely, oblique parabolic regions are still open, for similar investigations.

# APPENDIX

The classes we come across in the present investigation are listed below for the ready reference of the reader.