Further, for each  $|z| = r\leq R_{\mathfrak{F}}$  , one can observe that

$$
\frac{1}{2}\leq 1\leq a = \frac{1 + Ar^2}{1 - r^2}\leq \frac{1 + AR_{\mathfrak{F}}^2}{1 - R_{\mathfrak{F}}^2} < \frac{3}{2}. \tag{2.6}
$$

Infact inequalities (2.5) and (2.6) yields the inequality,

$$
\frac{(5 + A)r}{1 - r^2}\leq \frac{3}{2} -\frac{1 + Ar^2}{1 - r^2},
$$

provided  $r\leq R_{\mathfrak{F}}$  . Due to Lemma 2.5 it is clear that the disc  $|u - a|< R$  lies in  $\Omega_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  . Further, at  $z_0 = R_{\mathfrak{F}}$  the function  $f_{\mathfrak{F}}(z)$  defined as  $f_{\mathfrak{F}}(z) = z(1 + z)^2 /(1 - z)^{3 + A}$  acts as the extremal function.

Corollary 2.16. Let  $f\in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  , then sharp  $\mathcal{G}_1 -$  radius and  $\mathcal{G}_2 -$  radius for the class  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  are respectively given as

(i)  $\mathcal{R}_{\mathfrak{F}_1}(\mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}) = \sqrt{17} -4\approx 0.123\dots$  (ii)  $\mathcal{R}_{\mathfrak{F}_2}(\mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}) = (\sqrt{41} -6) / 5\approx 0.080\dots$

Theorem 2.19. Let  $\delta = (\pi \sqrt{\beta - 1} /\sqrt{2})$  , where  $1< \beta < 3 / 2$  , and suppose  $f\in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  , then  $\mathcal{M}(\beta)-$  radius is  $r_{\beta} = 1 + 2(\cot \delta)^{2} - 2|\sec \delta /(\tan^{2}\delta)|$

Proof. From Lemma 2.1 it can be viewed that

$$
\mathrm{Re}\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(z)\leq \mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(-r) = 1 - \frac{2}{\pi^2}\left(\log \left(\frac{1 + i\sqrt{r}}{1 - i\sqrt{r}}\right)\right)^2 = 1 + \frac{2}{\pi^2}\left(\tan^{-1}\left(\frac{2\sqrt{r}}{1 - r}\right)\right)^2.
$$

As  $f\in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  , then assume that  $zf^{\prime}(z) / f(z) = p(z)$  . Due to the above inequality  $\mathrm{Re}p(z)\leq \mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(- r)$  . Moreover,  $\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(- r)\leq \beta$  provided  $r\leq r_{\beta}$  , where  $r_{\beta}$  is the root of the equation  $(1 - \beta)\pi^{2} + 2(\tan^{- 1}(2\sqrt{r} /(1 - r)))^{2} =$  0 for  $1< \beta < 3 / 2$  . Equality here occurs for the function  $f_0\in \mathcal{A}$  given by (1.2).

If  $f(z)$  and  $g(z)$  be analytic functions in  $|z|< r$  , then  $f(z)$  is said to be majorized by  $g(z)$  , denoted as  $f(z)\ll g(z)$  , in  $|z|< r$  , if  $|f(z)|\leq |g(z)|$  in  $|z|< r$  . Equivalently, a function  $f(z)$  is said to be be majorized by  $g(z)$  , if there exists an analytic  $\Psi (z)$  with  $|\Psi (z)|\leq 1$  in  $\mathbb{D}$  and  $f(z) = \Psi (z)f(z)$  for all  $z\in \mathbb{D}$  . For recent update on majorization for starlike and convex function, see 4 5. In the next theorem, we determine sharp majorization radius for the class  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$

Theorem 2.20. Let  $f\in \mathcal{A}$  and suppose that  $g\in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  . Further assume that  $f(z)$  is majorized by  $g(z)$  in  $\mathbb{D}$  ,i.e  $f(z)\ll g(z)$  , then for  $|z|\leq r_{m}\approx 0.4220\dots$

$$
|f^{\prime}(z)|\leq |g^{\prime}(z)|,
$$

where  $r_m$  is the unique positive root of the following equation

$$
2\pi^2 r - (1 - r^2)(\pi^2 -2(\log ((1 + \sqrt{r}) / (1 - \sqrt{r})))^2) = 0. \tag{2.7}
$$

Proof. Suppose  $0\leq r< r^{*} = \tanh^{2}(\pi /2\sqrt{2})\approx 0.646\ldots$  , then due to Remark 2.9 we conclude that,  $g\in \mathcal{F}_{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}}$  qualifies to be a Ma- Minda type function in  $|z|< r^{*}$  . Further let  $w(z)$  be a Schwab function in  $\mathbb{D}$  with  $w(0) = 0$  , then by definition of subordination,

$$
\frac{zg'(z)}{g(z)} = \mathcal{LP}(w(z)).
$$

Note that for each  $|z| = r< 1$  , the inequality  $|\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(w(z))|\leq |\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(r)|$  holds. Now for  $|z| = r< r^{*}$  , we obtain

$$
\left|\frac{g(z)}{g'(z)}\right| = \frac{|z|}{|\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(z)|}\leq \frac{r}{1 - |\mathcal{P}_0(r)|} = \frac{r}{\mathcal{L}\mathcal{P}(r)}. \tag{2.8}
$$

As  $f(z)$  is majorized by  $g(z)$  in  $\mathbb{D}$  , we find from the definition of majorization,

$$
f(z) = \psi (z)g(z).
$$

Upon differentiating the above equality and suitable rearrangement of terms, we obtain

$$
f^{\prime}(z) = g^{\prime}(z)\left(\psi^{\prime}(z)\frac{g(z)}{g^{\prime}(z)} +\psi (z)\right). \tag{2.9}
$$