Proposition 8 Proposition 4.2 (a)] Let  $f:Y^{\prime}\to Y$  be a morphism of pure- dimensional schemes,  $X\subset Y$  a closed subscheme,  $X^{\prime} = f^{- 1}(X)$  the inverse image scheme,  $g:X^{\prime}\rightarrow$ $X$  the induced morphism

(a) If  $f$  is proper,  $Y$  irreducible, and  $f$  maps each irreducible component of  $Y^{\prime}$  onto  $Y$  then

$$
g_{s}(s(X^{\prime},Y^{\prime})) = \deg (Y^{\prime} / Y)s(X,Y).
$$

Equation  $(\square)$  can be used to calculate  $(\square)$ . Consider the following closed immersions:

$$
\Gamma_q\subset X\times Z_2\subset X\times \mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})
$$

Since each term is nonsingular, each of these closed immersions is a regular immersion. Therefore, we have the following exact sequence of normal bundles:

$$
0\to N_{\Gamma_q}(X\times Z_2)\to N_{\Gamma_q}(X\times \mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))\to N_{X\times Z_2}(X\times \mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))|_{\Gamma_q}\to 0 \tag{7}
$$

After simplification, we obtain the following:

$$
\begin{array}{c}{s(N_{\Gamma_q}(X\times Z_2)) = (\Gamma_q\to X)^* s(T_X) = (\mathrm{id}\times r)^* s(T_{\Delta (X)})}\\ {s(N_{X\times Z_2}(X\times \mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))|_{\Gamma_q}) = (\Gamma_q\to Z_2)^* s(N_{Z_2}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))} \end{array}
$$

Using  $(\square)$ , we get:

$$
s(N_{\Gamma_q}(X\times \mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))) = (\mathrm{id}\times r)^* s(T_{\Delta (X)})\cdot (\Gamma_q\to Z_2)^* s(N_{Z_2}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})). \tag{8}
$$

Note that  $(\mathrm{id}\times r|_{\Gamma_q\backslash *}\circ (\Gamma_q\to Z_2)^*$  is  $(\Delta (X)\to X)^{*}\circ r_{*}$  on Chow rings. From  $(\square)$  and  $(\square)$ , we get the following:

$$
s(\Delta (X),X\times \sigma_2(X)) = (\Delta (X)\to X)^* (s(T_X)\cdot r_*s(N_{Z_2}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))\cap [X]) \tag{9}
$$

So, it remains to compute the total Segre class  $s(\mathcal{N}_{Z_2}\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))$ . Since  $r^{- 1}(X)$  can be regarded as an effective divisor of  $\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})$ , we can compute  $s(Z_2,\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}}))$  by  $(\square)$  Cor 4.2.2] as follow:

$$
s(Z_2,\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})) = \frac{[Z_2]}{1 + [Z_2]}. \tag{10}
$$

In order to proceed, it is necessary to express the term  $[Z_2]$  in terms of the tautological line bundle  $\zeta$  of  $\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})$  and  $\pi^{*}\beta$ , where  $\beta$  is a divisor on  $X^{[2]}$  (cf. Fulton 2013, Chapter 3.3). This is achieved by calculating the first Chern class of  $E_{\mathcal{L}}$  in proposition 3.1.

Let  $h$  be the divisor corresponding to a line bundle  $L$  on  $X$ . We denote the pullback of  $h$  under the  $i$ - th projection as  $h_i$ . The morphism  $\rho$  is an involution map, so  $\rho_{*}\eta^{*}h_{1} = \rho_{*}\eta^{*}h_{2}$ . We define  $H = \rho_{*}\eta^{*}h_{1} = \rho_{*}\eta^{*}h_{2}$  and  $\delta = \frac{1}{2}\rho_{*}E$ . The following proposition may be known to experts but I could not find appropriate references, so I will provide a proof.

Proposition 3.1.  $c_{1}(E_{\mathcal{L}}) = H - \delta$

Proof. Let  $\pi :\mathbb{P}(E_{\mathcal{L}})\to X^{[2]}$  be the projection map of a projective bundle. Consider the normal sheaf  $\mathcal{N}\coloneqq \mathcal{N}_{Z_2 / X\times X^{[2]}}$  and the closed immersion  $j:Z_{2}\to X\times X^{[2]}$  with the composition  $q:Z_{2}\to X$  of  $\eta$  and the first projection. The morphism  $\pi_1|_{Z_2}:Z_2\to X^{[2]}$  is a finite flat morphism, and  $\pi_{2*}(\pi_1^*\mathcal{L}\otimes \mathcal{O}_{Z_2})$  is a locally free sheaf on  $X^{[2]}$ , so by Grauert's theorem, all higher direct images  $R^{i}\pi_{2*}(\pi_{1}^{*}\mathcal{L}\otimes \mathcal{O}_{Z_{2}})$  vanish for  $i\geq 1$ . Let  $T_{X}$  be the tangent sheaf of  $X$ .