The dimension  $i$  part of the Segre class  $s(C)$  is denoted  $s_i(C)$ , and if  $C$  is equidimensional, then  $s_i(C) = s^{\dim C - i}(C)$ . The dimension  $i$  part of the Segre class of the normal cone of a closed immersion  $X \to Y$  is denoted  $s_i(C_XY)$  or  $s(X,Y)_i$ .

For the better understanding of the generalized version of double point formula, we give a definition of two kind of join varieties.

Definition 2. (cf. [7 Chapter 1.3])

Let  $X$  and  $Y$  be subvarieties of  $\mathbb{P}^N$ . The embedded join of  $X$  and  $Y$  is the closure of the union of all linear connecting a point in  $X$  to a point in  $Y$ , denoted  $XY$ . The abstract or ruled join  $J(X,Y)$  is the projective spectrum of the tensor product of the homogeneous coordinate rings of  $X$  and  $Y$ , denoted  $J(X,Y)$ .

For example, the ruled join of  $\mathbb{P}^n$  and  $\mathbb{P}^m$  is  $\mathbb{P}^{n + m + 1}$ . The affine cone of a subvariety  $X$  is defined as the spectrum of the homogeneous coordinate ring of  $X$ . The ruled join  $J(X,Y)$  consists of the closed points  $[x:y]$  where  $x$  and  $y$  are points of affine cones of  $X$  and  $Y$ , respectively.

Let  $X$  and  $Y$  be two projective subvarieties of the projective space  $\mathbb{P}^N$ , and let  $x$  and  $y$  be closed points in  $X$  and  $Y$ , respectively, with coordinate representations  $[x_0: \dots : x_N]$  and  $[y_0: \dots : y_N]$ . We define a rational map  $J(X,Y) \dashrightarrow XY$  by

$$
[x_0:\dots :x_N:y_0:\dots :y_N]\mapsto [x_0 - y_0:\dots :x_N - y_N].
$$

The indeterminate locus of this map is defined by the equations  $x_0 - y_0 = \dots = x_N - y_N = 0$ . We denote the degree of this rational map  $J(X,Y) \dashrightarrow XY$  by  $\deg (J / XY)$ .

The intersection  $X \cap Y$  is embedded into the product variety  $X \times Y$  along its diagonal embedding. Let  $C_{X \cap Y}(X \times Y)$  denote the normal cone of  $X \cap Y$  to  $X \times Y$ . The following theorem decomposes the information of the embedded join into simpler pieces:

Theorem [7] Theorem 8.2.8] For subvarieties  $X,Y$  of  $\mathbb{P}^N$  of degree  $d_{X}$  , resp.  $d_{Y}$  and dimension  $n$  , resp.  $m$  we have

$$
\deg XY\deg (J/XY)=d_Xd_Y-\sum_{k\geq 0}\binom{n+m+1}{k}\deg s_k(C_{X\cap Y}(X\times Y)).
$$

This formula is derived from the refined Bezout's theorem, which is based on Vogel's  $v$  and  $\beta$  cycle construction. For further explanations, see [7 Chapter 2] and [7 Chapter 8].

If we set  $Y = \sigma_{2}(X)$  , then the embedded join  $XY$  is the 3- secant variety  $\sigma_3(X)$  Thus, in order to compute  $\deg \sigma_3(X)$  , we need the degree of the 2- secant variety  $d_{Y} =$ $\deg \sigma_{2}(X)$  as well as the degrees of the Segre classes  $s_k(C_{\Delta (X)}(X\times \sigma_2(X)))$  . Assume that  $\mathcal{O}_X(1)$  is a 3- very ample line bundle. The degree of the 2- secant variety  $d_{Y}$  can be obtained by applying [7] Theorem 8.2.8] again:

$$
2\deg\sigma_{2}(X)=d_{X}^{2}-\sum_{k\geq 0}\binom{2n+1}{k}\deg s_{k}(C_{\Delta(X)}(X\times X)). \tag{1}
$$

If  $\mathcal{L}$  is 5- very ample, the degree of the rational map  $J(X,Y) \dashrightarrow XY$  is 3. (cf. Lemma 4.1) Therefore, by the above theorem, the degree of the 3- secant variety of  $X$  can be computed as follows:

$$
\frac{1}{3}\left(\frac{d_X(d_X^2 - A)}{2} -B\right) \tag{2}
$$