$Z_{2}$  as the inverse image of  $X$ . Since the codimension of  $Z_{2}$  in the secant bundle is 1, we can treat  $Z_{2}$  as an effective divisor, which aids in computation. In Section 4, we derive the main theorem which provides the degree formula for the 3- secant variety by using the refined Bezout's theorem and the total Segre class computed in Section 3. Additionally, we compute the multiplicity of  $\sigma_{2}(X)$  along  $X$ . In Section 5, we apply the main theorem to cases of curves and surfaces with explicit calculations.

Acknowledgements This research was partially supported by the Institute for Basic Science (IBS- R032- D1) and the author would like to thank Yongnam Lee for his suggestions for research topics.

# 2 Generalized double point formula

The generalized version of double point formula is one of a useful application of the refined Bezout's theorem that is a fundamental theorem in intersection theory. The double point formula allows us to compute the degree of the intersection of two subvarieties of a projective space. In this paper, we will use it as a starting point to understand the complexity of the 3- secant variety in terms of the 2- secant variety.

To set the stage for the generalized version of double point formula, we first introduce some notation and conventions. Let  $X$  be an algebraic scheme over a field  $k$  and  $S^{\prime}\coloneqq \bigoplus_{\nu}S^{\nu}$  be a sheaf of graded  $\mathcal{O}_X$  - algebras. We assume that the map  $\mathcal{O}_X\to S^0$  is surjective,  $S^1$  is coherent, and  $S^{\prime}$  is generated by  $S^1$  .We define the cone of  $S^{\prime}$  as the relative spectrum  $C\coloneqq \mathbf{Spec}(S^{\prime})$  and the projection  $C\to X$  . The projective cone of  $S^{\prime}$  is defined as the relative projective spectrum  $P(C)\coloneqq \mathbf{Proj}(S^{\prime})$  with the projection  $P(C)\to X$  . We also define  $P(C\oplus 1)\coloneqq \mathbf{Proj}(S^{\prime}[z])$  as the projective completion of  $C$  , with projection  $q:P(C\oplus 1)\to X$  , and let  $\mathcal{O}(1)$  be the tautological line bundle on  $P(C\oplus 1)$

Remark. Throughout this paper, we use the convention for projective bundle as in  $\mathbb{B}$  Appendix B.5.5].

With these conventions in place, we can now define the Segre class of a cone.

Definition 1. (cf.  $\mathbb{B}$  Chapter 4])

For a variety  $V$  , we denote the algebraic cycle corresponding to  $V$  as  $\lfloor V\rfloor$  . The Segre class of  $C$  is the class in  $A_{*}(X)$  defined by

$$
s(C)\coloneqq q_{*}(\sum_{i\geq 0}c_{1}(\mathcal{O}(1))^{i}\cap [P(C\oplus 1)]).
$$

There are two useful examples of total Segre classes of cones: when the cone is given by a vector bundle, in which case the Segre class can be interpreted as the inverse of the total Chern class, and when the cone is the normal cone of a closed embedding, in which case the Segre class is called the Segre class of the closed immersion and is denoted  $s(X,Y)$

The codimension  $i$  part of the Segre class,  $s^i (C)$  , of a cone  $C$  is defined in  $\boxed{7}$  as

$$
s^i (C) = q_*(c_1(\mathcal{O}(1))^i\cap [\mathbb{P}(C\oplus 1)]),
$$

where  $i\geq 0$  .The projective completion of  $C$  is denoted as  $P(C\oplus 1)$  in  $\mathbb{B}$  and as  $\mathbb{P}(C\oplus 1)$  in  $\boxed{7}$  . These two notations refer to the same concept. Alternatively,  $s^i (C)$  can also be represented as  $p_{*}(c_{1}(\mathcal{O}(1))^{i - 1}\cap [\mathbb{P}C])$  , where  $p:\mathbb{P}C\to X$  is the projective cone of  $C$