give the following table for each case.

<table><tr><td>q</td><td>9</td><td>13</td><td>17</td><td>25</td><td>29</td><td>37</td><td>41</td><td>49</td></tr><tr><td>g</td><td>α</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>β</td><td>2</td><td>5</td><td>6</td><td>γ</td></tr><tr><td>x</td><td>α</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>y</td><td>α</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>β²</td><td>4</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>2γ⁷</td></tr></table>

where  $\alpha = 1 + \sqrt{- 1}$  in  $\mathbb{F}_9 = \mathbb{F}_3(\sqrt{- 1})$ $\beta = 1 + 2\sqrt{2}$  in  $\mathbb{F}_{25} = \mathbb{F}_5(\sqrt{2})$  and  $\gamma = 4 + \sqrt{- 1}$  in  $\mathbb{F}_{49} = \mathbb{F}_7(\sqrt{- 1})$

This completes the verifications of all cases in which  $N_{g} > 0$  . Moreover, we've exhibited all solutions  $(x,y)$  such that  $xy\neq 0$  and thus finish the proof.

We would like to point out that it's possible to prove Corollary 2.3 by using the bound (6) without applying the Hasse- Weil bound.

In view of Conjecture  $\boxed{ \begin{array}{r l} \end{array} }$  we only need to find a generator  $g$  of  $\mathbb{F}_q^\times$  such that  $\mathcal{C}_g(\mathbb{F}_q)$  is non- empty. Instead of computing  $N_{g}$  , our goal is to show that the following sum

$$
N(q,\ell) = \sum_{\mathbb{F}_q^\times = \langle g'\rangle}N_{g'} = \sum_{\stackrel{1\leq t\leq q - 1,}{\gcd (t,q - 1) = 1}}N_{g'}
$$

is a positive integer under appropriate conditions.

# 3.KEY INGREDIENTS

In this section, we gather tools and results that are needed for the proof of Theorem  $\boxed{\mathbb{A}}$  To simplify the notation, we'll put  $(a_{1},a_{2}) = \gcd (a_{1},a_{2})$  , the greatest common divisor of integers  $a_1$  and  $a_{\perp}$  . The following lemma is an elementary fact in algebra which we will use repeatedly. As one can easily find a proof in any algebra text book, we skip the proof here.

Lemma 3.1. Let  $n\in \mathbb{N}$  and let  $d$  be a divisor of  $n$  . Then the canonical group homomorphism

$$
\pi :(\mathbb{Z} / n\mathbb{Z})^{\times}\to (\mathbb{Z} / d\mathbb{Z})^{\times}
$$

induced by

$$
\begin{array}{rcl}{\mathbb{Z}_t / n\mathbb{Z}_t} & \to & {\mathbb{Z}_t / d\mathbb{Z},}\\ {k + n\mathbb{Z}} & \mapsto & {k + d\mathbb{Z}} \end{array}
$$

is surjective. Furthermore, this homomorphism splits. Namely, there exists a subgroup  $M$  of  $(\mathbb{Z} / n\mathbb{Z})^{\times}$  which is isomorphic to  $(\mathbb{Z} / d\mathbb{Z})^{\times}$  under  $\pi$  and  $(\mathbb{Z} / n\mathbb{Z})^{\times} = M\cdot N$  where  $N = \ker (\pi)$

For  $n\in \mathbb{N}$  and  $m\in \mathbb{Z}$  , the Ramanujan's sum  $c_{n}(m)$  ([Ram18] or [HSW00] pp. 179- 199]) is defined by

$$
c_{n}(m) = \sum_{\stackrel{1\leq t< n,}{(t,n) = 1}}\zeta_{n}^{mt}
$$