# 7. REFERENCES

[1] J. M. Boyce, Y. Ye, J. Chen, and A. K. Ramasubramonian, "Overview of SHVC: Scalable extensions of the high efficiency video coding standard," IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 20- 34, Jan 2016. [2] A. Heindel, E. Wige, and A. Kaup, "Low- complexity enhancement layer compression for scalable lossless video coding based on HEVC," IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 27, no. 8, pp. 1749- 1760, Aug 2017. [3] G. Karlsson and M. Vetterli, "Three dimensional sub- band coding of video," in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), New York City, NY, USA, Apr 1988, vol. 2, pp. 1100- 1103. [4] J. Garbas, B. Pesquet- Popescu, and A. Kaup, "Methods and tools for wavelet- based scalable multiview video coding," IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 113- 126, Feb 2011. [5] ITU- T and ISO/IEC, "JPEG 2000 Image Coding System: Core Coding System," in ITU- T Rec. T.800 and ISO/IEC 15444- 1:2004, Sep 2004. [6] W. Schnurrer, N. Pallast, T. Richter, and A. Kaup, "Temporal scalability of dynamic volume data using mesh compensated wavelet lifting," IEEE Trans. on Image Processing, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 419- 431, Jan 2018. [7] W. Sweldens, "Lifting scheme: a new philosophy in biorthogonal wavelet constructions," in Proc. SPIE Int. Symp. on Optical Science, Engineering, and Instrumentation, San Diego, CA, USA, Sep 1995, vol. 2569, pp. 68- 79. [8] A.R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, and B.- L. Yeo, "Lossless image compression using integer to integer wavelet transforms," in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Image Processing (ICIP), Oct 1997, vol. 1, pp. 596- 599. [9] J. R. Ohm, "Three- dimensional subband coding with motion compensation," IEEE Trans. on Image Processing, vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 559- 571, Sep 1994. [10] N. Bozinovic, J. Konrad, W. Zhao, and C. Vazquez, "On the importance of motion invertibility in MCTF/DWT video coding," in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), Philadelphia, PA, USA, Mar 2005, pp. 49- 52. [11] R. R. Coifman and M. V. Wickerhauser, "Entropy- based algorithms for best basis selection," IEEE Trans. on Information Theory, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 713- 718, March 1992. [12] K. Ramchandran and M. Vetterli, "Best wavelet packet bases in a rate- distortion sense," IEEE Trans. on Image Processing, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 160- 175, Apr 1993. [13] D. Lanz, J. Seiler, K. Jaskolka, and A. Kaup, "Compression of dynamic medical CT data using motion compensated wavelet lifting with denoised update," in Proc. IEEE Picture Coding Symposium (PCS), San Francisco, CA, USA, June 2018, pp. 1- 5. [14] Ian H. Witten, Radford M. Neal, and John G. Cleary, "Arithmetic coding for data compression," Communications of the ACM, vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 520- 540, June 1987.

[15] F. Bossen, "Common test conditions and software reference configurations," Joint Collaborative Team on Video Coding (JCT- VC) of ITU- T SG16 WP3 and ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11, Jan 2013. [16] A. Descampe, F. Devaux, H. Drollon, D. Janssens, and Y. Verschueren, "OpenJPEG 2.0.0," Nov 2012. [17] J.E. Fowler, "Qccpack: An open- source software library for quantization, compression, and coding," in Proc. SPIE Applications of Digital Image Processing XXIII, San Diego, CA, USA, Aug 2000, vol. 4115, pp. 294- 301.