In Case (b), where  $b = 3c + 2$  and  $a = 2c + 2$ , equation (15) implies that  $3|2^{7}yz^{6}D$  which is impossible. Hence, if Case (b) holds, then  $P$  cannot be the image of any point  $Q \in \hat{E}_D(\mathbb{Q})$ .

In Case (c) we have nothing to show since this case cannot happen.

In Case (d),  $b = 3a / 2$  and  $a$  must be even. We rewrite equation (15) as

$$
3^{2 + (3c - b + 1)}(Bz^{a - 3} + 3^{(3c - b + 1)}2^{7}z^{6}yD) = yx^{3}. \tag{16}
$$

Denote by  $\epsilon$  the common exponent  $\epsilon = 3c - b + 1$ .

If  $\epsilon \geq 0$ , equation (16) implies that  $3|yx^{3}$ , a contradiction.

If  $\epsilon = - 1$  then  $b = 3c + 2$  and we are in Case  $a$ .

If  $\epsilon \leq - 2$ , equation (16) implies that  $3|2^{7}z^{6}yD$ , a contradiction.

Hence, if Case (d) holds, then  $P$  cannot be the image of any point  $Q \in \hat{E}_D(\mathbb{Q})$ .

Having exhausted all possible cases, we see that  $P$  cannot be the image of any point  $Q \in \hat{E}_D(\mathbb{Q})$  and the lemma is proved.

Before we move on to Proposition 4.8, we need the following two definitions.

Definition 4.6. Given an order  $\mathcal{O}$ , we say that a proper  $\mathcal{O}$ - ideal  $\mathfrak{a}$  is primitive if it is not of the form  $\mathfrak{h}$  for  $1 < k \in \mathbb{Z}$  and  $\mathfrak{a}$  a proper ideal (ยง 11. D, pg.214/). We will call an element  $\pi$  primitive if  $(\pi)$  is a primitive ideal.

The second definition is a very brief definition of what we call a 3- virtual unit. The reader may find more on 3- virtual units in [1], and on  $l$ - virtual units in general in [6, Section 5.2.2].

Definition 4.7. An element  $\alpha \in K_{D^{\prime}}^{\times}$  is a 3- virtual unit of  $K_{D^{\prime}}$  if there exists an ideal  $\mathfrak{a}$  in the maximal order  $\mathcal{O}_{D^{\prime}}$  of  $K_{D^{\prime}}$  such that  $\alpha \mathcal{O}_{D^{\prime}} = \mathfrak{a}^{3}$ .

Proposition 4.8. As before,  $D$  is a negative fundamental discriminant satisfying the congruence relations in (1). The subfamily of elliptic curves  $E_{D^{\prime}}$  for which  $r_3(D) = r_3(D') + 1$  holds, have odd rank and no integral points.

Proof. The fact that the whole family of elliptic curves  $E_{D^{\prime}}$  has odd rank was proved in Corollary 3.2. Assume now that we are in the escalatory case and assume by way of contradiction that an elliptic curve  $E_{D^{\prime}}$  in this subfamily has an integral point  $P = (A,B) \in E_{D^{\prime}}(\mathbb{Z})$ . Plugging the point back in  $E_{D^{\prime}}$  and modifying the coefficients a little we obtain

$$
3^{4}D = 4(\frac{3A}{4})^{3} - 27(\frac{B}{4})^{2}.
$$

Case (a): From the equation of  $E_{D^{\prime}}$ , we see that if either  $A$  or  $B$  is even then so must be the other one, since  $B^{2} = A^{3} - 3 \cdot 16D$ . From the same equation we see that  $B$  must actually be divisible by 4 exactly, since  $2 \nmid D$ . Let  $A = 2a$  and  $B = 4b$ . Cancelling out the 16 we end up with  $2a^{3} = b^{2} + 3D$ . Since  $D \equiv 1$  mod 4 and  $b$  is odd, we have a contradiction unless  $2|a$ . Therefore, if both  $A$  and  $B$  are even then we must have that  $4||B$  and  $4|A$ . This implies that the monic polynomial

$$
g(x) = x^{3} - \frac{3A}{4} x + \frac{B}{4} = x^{3} - 3ax + b
$$