Again, by assuming finiteness of the Tate- Shafarevich group, the non- degenerate alternating pairing on  $\Pi (E_{D^{\prime}})[3]$  implies that this group is of even dimension as an  $\mathbb{F}_3$ - vector space and we obtain the congruence relation

$$
r(E_{D^{\prime}})\equiv r(\mathcal{S}_3(E_{D^{\prime}}))\equiv r(\mathcal{S}_\phi (E_{D^{\prime}})) + r(\mathcal{S}_\hat{\phi} (\hat{E}_D))\equiv 1\bmod 2. \tag{13}
$$

The last two equivalences follow from (11) and Proposition 3.1

# 4. THE ESCALATORY CASE AND NO INTEGRAL POINTS

In the previous section we established that the elliptic curves  $E_{D^{\prime}}$  have odd rank. In this section, we will define a subfamily of these curves and show that this subfamily cannot have integral points.

Let us first recall a classical result of Scholz regarding the rank of the 3- part of the ideal class group of quadratic number fields. The interested reader may refer to [18, Section 10.2] for more details on Scholz's Theorem.

# Theorem 4.1. Reflection Theorem of Scholz

Let  $d > 1$  be square- free. Let  $F = \mathbb{Q}(\sqrt{d})$  and  $K = \mathbb{Q}(\sqrt{- 3} d)$ . If  $3|d$  then let  $K = \mathbb{Q}(\sqrt{- d / 3})$ . Then  $r_F\leq r_K\leq r_F + 1$

Definition 4.2. With notation as in Theorem 4.1, we define as escalatory the case where  $r_K = r_F + 1$  and as non- escalatory the case where  $r_K = r_F$

The terms escalatory and non- escalatory are used for example in [9, Chapter 4]. Specifically, in Section 4.10 of [9], it is shown that in the case of negative fundamental discriminant  $d$ , the escalatory case is equivalent to the non- existence of cubic fields of discriminant  $3^{4}d$ . Translating this to our notation, we have

Remark 4.3. If  $r_3(D) = r_3(D') + 1$  then there are no cubic fields of discriminant  $3^{4}D$

We will not explain in this paper the proof of this result. We only need to mention that the proof requires the use of the so- called 3- virtual units, which we also use here and we define right before Proposition 4.8. These 3- virtual units live in the quadratic resolvent  $K_{D^{\prime}}$  and give rise to cubic extensions of  $K_{D}$ . The interested reader will find all the necessary theory in [9, Chapter 4] and [6, Section 5.2.2], and may find more on the relation between 3- virtual units, ideal class groups and elliptic curves in [1].

Before we go on to prove that the subfamily of elliptic curves  $E_{D^{\prime}}$  with  $r_3(D) = r_3(D') + 1$  have no integral points, let us show the relation between the non- escalatory case  $r_3(D) = r_3(D')$  and the existence of a cubic field of discriminant  $3^{4}D$ , via elliptic curves, with the following example. Let us note that the discriminant  $D = - 1355$  of the example does not belong to the set of discriminants that we consider in this paper, since  $- 1355\equiv 1$  mod 3. This is not important though since it does not affect the purpose of the example.

Example 4.4. Consider the negative fundamental discriminant  $D = - 1355$ . We have  $r_3(D) = r_3(D') = 1$  and so we are in the non- escalatory case. To show the existence of a cubic field of discriminant equal to  $3^{4}D$ , which is