preserving in both directions. By Uhlhorn's theorem,  $g$  is induced by a unitary or anti- unitary operator  $U_{X}:X\to X^{\prime}$  . Then

$$
f(M) = g(M^{\perp}\cap X)^{\perp}\cap X^{\prime} = (U_{X}(M^{\perp}\cap X))^{\perp}\cap X^{\prime} = U_{X}(M)
$$

for every  $M\in \mathcal{G}^1 (X)$

Lemma 5. If  $Z\in \mathcal{C}_{- 1}$  is contained in  $X\in \mathcal{C}_{+1}$  ,then

$$
f(\mathcal{S}(Z)) = \mathcal{S}(U_X(Z)).
$$

Proof. We take distinct  $M,N$  belonging to  $S(Z)\cap \mathcal{G}^1 (X)$  . Then  $Z = M\cap N$  and

$$
f(S(Z)) = S(Z^{\prime}),
$$

where  $Z^{\prime} = f(M)\cap f(N)$  .By Lemma

$$
U_{X}(Z) = U_{X}(M)\cap U_{X}(N) = f(M)\cap f(N) = Z^{\prime}
$$

which gives the claim.

Lemma 6. If  $X,Y\in \mathcal{C}_{+1}$  ,then

$$
U_{X}(P) = U_{Y}(P)
$$

for every 1- dimensional subspace  $P\subset X\cap Y$

Proof. Since  $C_{+1}$  is a connected component of  $G_{\infty}(H)$  , there is a sequence

$$
X = X_{0},X_{1},\ldots ,X_{m} = Y
$$

of elements of  $C_{+1}$  , where  $X_{i - 1},X_{i}$  are adjacent for every  $i\in \{1,\ldots ,m\}$  ; furthermore, we can construct this sequence such that each  $X_{i}$  contains  $X\cap Y$  .For this reason, it is sufficient to consider the case when  $X,Y$  are adjacent.

If  $X$  and  $Y$  are adjacent, then  $M = X\cap Y$  belongs to  $C$  .Let  $P$  be a 1- dimensional subspace of  $M$  . Then  $Z = P^{\perp}\cap M$  belongs to  $C_{- 1}$  . Since  $\alpha$  is contained in both  $X,Y$  ,we have

$$
U_{X}(Z) = U_{Y}(Z) \tag{1}
$$

by Lemma  $\boxed{5}$  Then

$$
U_{X}(P)\oplus U_{X}(Z) = U_{X}(M) = f(M) = U_{Y}(M) = U_{Y}(P)\oplus U_{Y}(Z)
$$

and  $\boxed{1}$  implies that  $U_{X}(P) = U_{Y}(P)$

Consider the transformation  $h$  of  $\mathcal{G}_1(H)$  defined as follows: for a 1- dimensional subspace  $P\subset H$  we take any  $X\in \mathcal{C}_{+1}$  containing  $P$  and set  $h(P) = U_X(P)$  .By Lemma  $\boxed{6}$ $h$  is well- defined. Since for any two 1- dimensional subspaces of  $H$  there is an element of  $C_{+1}$  containing them,  $h$  is a bijection preserving the orthogonality relation in both directions. Then  $h$  is induced by a unitary or anti- unitary operator  $U$  on  $H$  (Uhlhorn's theorem). The restriction of  $U$  to every  $X\in C_{+}$  is a scalar multiple of  $U_{X}$  . This implies that  $f|_{C}$  is induced by  $U$