$(2)\Rightarrow (1)$  . Suppose that  $X,Y$  are not adjacent. Then  $X\cap Y$  is of codimension 2 in both  $X,Y$  . Since there is a pair of ortho- adjacent elements of  $\mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  which are ortho- adjacent to both  $X,Y$  , Lemma 2 implies that  $X$  and  $Y$  are compatible. Then, by Lemma  $\amalg$  for every  $Z\in \mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  ortho- adjacent to both  $X,Y$  there are precisely two elements of  $\mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  ortho- adjacent to  $X,Y,Z$  which contradicts our assumption. Therefore,  $X,Y$  are adjacent.

# 4.PROOF OF THEOREM

Let  $f$  be a bijective transformation of  $\mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  preserving the ortho- adjacency in both directions. Lemma  $\boxed{\mathfrak{B}}$  shows that  $f$  also is adjacency preserving in both directions. Then  $f$  preservers the family of subsets maximal with respect to the property that any two distinct elements are adjacent. By [17 Proposition 2.14], every such subset is of one of the following types:

the star  $S(X)$ $X\in \mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  which consists of all closed subspaces of  $H$  containing  $X$  as a hyperplane; the top  $\mathcal{G}^1 (X)$ $X\in \mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$

Let  $C$  be a connected component of  $\mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  . Denote by  $C_{+1}$  and  $C_{- 1}$  the sets of all  $X\in \mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  such that  $X$  contains a certain element of  $C$  as a hyperplane or  $X$  is a hyperplane in a certain element of  $C$  , respectively. Then  $X\in \mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  belongs to  $C_{+1}$  if and only if the top  $\mathcal{G}^1 (X)$  is contained in  $C$  ; similarly,  $X$  belongs to  $C_{- 1}$  if and only if the star  $S(X)$  is contained in  $C$  .Note that  $C_{+1}$  and  $C_{- 1}$  are connected components of  $\mathcal{G}_{\infty}(H)$  .By [17, Theorem 2.19], one of the following possibilities is realized:

1  $f$  sends every top  $\mathcal{G}^1 (X)$ $X\in C_{+1}$  to a top and every star  $S(Y)$ $Y\in C_{- 1}$  to a star; 2  $f$  transfers all tops  $\mathcal{G}^1 (X)$ $X\in C_{+1}$  to stars and all stars  $S(Y)$ $Y\in C_{- 1}$  to tops.

In the case (2), the composition of the orthocomplementary map and  $f|_{C}$  sends tops to tops and stars to stars. Therefore, it is sufficient to show that  $f|_{C}$  is induced by a unitary or anti- unitary operator in the case (1).

Consider the case 1

Lemma 4. Let  $X\in C_{+1}$  .If  $f(\mathcal{G}^1 (X)) = \mathcal{G}^1 (X')$  , then there is a unitary or antiunitary operator  $U_{X}:X\to X^{\prime}$  such that

$$
f(M) = U_{\mathrm{X}}(M)
$$

for every  $M\in \mathcal{G}^1 (X)$

Proof. Consider the bijective map  $g:\mathcal{G}_1(X)\to \mathcal{G}_1(X')$  defined as follows:

$$
g(P) = f(P^{\perp}\cap X)^{\perp}\cap X^{\prime}
$$

for every 1- dimensional subspace  $P\subset X$  .Observe that 1- dimensional subspaces  $P,Q\subset X$  are orthogonal if and only if

$$
P^{\perp}\cap X,Q^{\perp}\cap X\in \mathcal{G}^{1}(X)
$$

are ortho- adjacent; the same holds for 1- dimensional subspaces of  $X^{\prime}$  . This implies that  $g$  is orthogonality preserving in both directions, since  $f$  is ortho- adjacency