[9] A.M. Gleason, *Measures on the closed subspaces of a Hilbert space*, Indiana Univ. Math. J. 6(1957), 885- 893. [10] M. Győry, *Transformations on the set of all  $n$ - dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving orthogonality*, Publ. Math. Debrecen 65 (2004), 233- 242. [11] H. Havlicek, *On Plücker transformations of generalized elliptic spaces*, Rend. Mat. Appl. (7) 15 (1995), 39- 56. [12] S. Kakutani, G. W. Mackey, *Ring and lattice characterizations of complex Hilbert space*, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 52(1946), 727- 733. [13] L. Molnár, *Transformations on the set of all  $n$ - dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving principal angles*, Comm. Math. Phys. 217 (2001), 409- 421. [14] L. Molnár, *Selected Preserver Problems in Algebraic Structures of Linear Operators and In Function Spaces*, Lecture Notes in Mathematics 1895, Springer, 2007. [15] L. Molnár, *Maps on the  $n$ - dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space preserving principal angles*, Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 136 (2008), 3205- 3209. [16] M. Pankov, *Grassmannians of classical buildings*, World Scientific, 2010. [17] M. Pankov, *Wigner- type theorems for Hilbert Grassmannians*, London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series 460, Cambridge University Press, 2020. [18] M. Pankov, T. Vetterlein, *A geometric approach to Wigner- type theorems*, Bull. London Math. Soc. 53 (2021) 1653- 1662. [19] M. Pankov, K. Petelczyc, M. Zynel, *Automorphisms and some geodesic properties of ortho- Grassmann graphs*, Electron. J. Comb. 28 (2021), P4.49. [20] K. Przimowski, M. Zynel, *Orthogonality of subspaces in metric- projective geometry*, Adv. Geom. 11 (2011), 103- 116. [21] P. Semrl, *Orthogonality preserving transformations on the set of  $n$ - dimensional subspaces of a Hilbert space*, Illinois J. Math. 48 (2004), 567- 573. [22] P. Semrl, *Wigner symmetries and Gleason's theorem*, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 54 (2021), 315301. [23] U. Uhlhorn, *Representation of symmetry transformations in quantum mechanics*, Ark. Fysik 23 (1963), 307- 340. [24] Z. Wan, *Geometry of Matrices*, World Scientific, 1996. [25] E.P. Wigner, *Gruppentheorie und ihre Anwendung auf die Quantenmechanik der Atomspekten*, Fredrik Vieweg und Sohn, 1931 (English translation Group Theory and its Applications to the Quantum Mechanics of Atomic Spectra, Academic Press, 1959).MARK PANKOV: FACULTY OF MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE, UNIVERSITY OF WARMIA AND MAZURY, SLONECZNA 54, 10- 710 OLSZTYN, POLANDEmail address: pankov@matman.uwm.edu.plADAM TYC: FACULTY OF MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE, UNIVERSITY OF WARMIA AND MAZURY, SLONECZNA 54, 10- 710 OLSZTYN, POLANDEmail address: adam.tyc@matman.uwm.edu.pl