b- The octahedron. It has  $2^{n}$  facets, each of them is a regular simplex of volume  $|F|_{n - 1} = \frac{\sqrt{n}}{(n - 1)!}$ . Let  $\Delta_{k}$  denote a regular  $k$ - simplex with edge length  $\sqrt{2}$  (so  $|\Delta_{k}|_{k} = \frac{\sqrt{k + 1}}{k!}$ ). Then, if  $n \geq 3$ :

$$
\begin{array}{rl} & {\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(O_n)} = \frac{n|O_n||\partial F|}{(n - 1)|\partial O_n||F|} = \frac{n}{n - 1}\frac{n|\Delta_{n - 2}|}{n!|F|^2}}\\ & {\qquad = \frac{n}{n - 1}\frac{(n - 1)!^2}{n!(n - 2)!}\sqrt{n - 1} = \sqrt{n - 1} >1.} \end{array}
$$

c- The cylinders. Let  $L$  be an  $(n - 1)$ - dimensional convex body. Define  $C = Conv(L,L')$  where  $L' = L + t e_{n}$  is a translate of  $L$  parallel to it. Then  $|C| = t|L|$ , thus :

$$
\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(L)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(C)} = \frac{n|C||\partial L|}{(n - 1)|\partial C||L|} = \frac{t n}{n - 1}\frac{|\partial L|}{|\partial C|} = \frac{t n}{n - 1}\frac{|\partial L|}{(2|L| + t|\partial L|)}.
$$

This ratio is greater than 1 for large  $t$  (as soon as  $t > 2\frac{n}{n - 1} (\mathrm{I s o p}(L))^{- 1}$ ). Letting  $T$  be an appropriate affine transform, i.e.  $T e_{n} = t_{0}e_{n}$ , and  $T e_{i} = e_{i}$  ( $i \leq n - 1$ ), where  $t_0$  is large enough, one deduces that  $b_{2}(C) = b_{2}(TC) > 1$ , because  $\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(T L)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T C)} = \frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(L)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T C)} > 1$ .

d- The half- ball. Denote  $H_{+} = \{x_{n} \geq 0\}$  a closed half- space,  $B_{2}^{n}$  the (unit) Euclidean ball, and  $M = H_{+} \cap B_{2}^{n}$  a half- ball. Then  $|M|_{n} = \kappa_{n} / 2$ ,  $|\partial M|_{n - 1} = \frac{n\kappa_{n}}{2} + \kappa_{n - 1}$ , and so  $\mathrm{I s o p}(M) = 1 + \frac{2\kappa_{n - 1}}{n\kappa_{n}}$ . The unique facet of  $M$  is  $F \approx B_{2}^{n - 1}$ , and so  $\mathrm{I s o p}(F) = 1$ . Hence  $\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(M)} < 1$ .

Nonetheless, one can find an affine transform  $T$  such that  $\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(T F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T M)} > 1$ , showing that  $b_{2}(M) > 1$ . Indeed, let  $c > 1$  be large enough and let  $T$  be the unique affine transform such that  $T e_{n} = c e_{n}$ , and  $T e_{i} = e_{i}$  for  $i \leq n - 1$ . Then computations show that  $\mathrm{I s o p}(T M) = \frac{|\partial C|}{n|\mathcal{E}|} + \frac{2\kappa_{n - 1}}{n\kappa_{n}c} < \frac{|\partial C|}{n|\mathcal{E}|} + \frac{1}{c} < 1 = \mathrm{I s o p}(T F) = \mathrm{I s o p}(F)$ , showing  $b_{2}(M) = b_{2}(T M) < 1$ . (see appendix for computational details)

In the above four examples (unit cube, octahedron  $O_{n}$ , cylinders, half- balls), we used Proposition 1 (or Proposition 2) to argue that  $b_{2}(K) > 1$ . For these examples, the fact that  $b_{2}(K) > 1$  was already known: the cylinder, like the cube, is decomposable, the half- ball has (many) points of positive curvature on its boundary, and it was directly shown in [SZ15] that  $b_{2}(O_{n}) = 2$  (by taking well- chosen segments). The half- ball example suggests that  $\max_{F} \frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(K)}$  could be minimal when  $K$  is in its John's position.

As a sanity check, one may wish to compute  $\max_{F} \frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta)}$ , when  $\Delta$  is an  $n$ - simplex, to check this quantity is less than 1. If  $\Delta = T_{n}$  is a regular simplex with edge length  $\sqrt{2}$ , then  $|T_{n}| = \frac{\sqrt{n + 1}}{n!}$ , and  $|\partial T_{n}| = (n + 1)|T_{n - 1}| = (n + 1)\frac{\sqrt{n}}{(n - 1)!}$ , so that  $\mathrm{I s o p}(T_{n}) = \sqrt{n(n + 1)}$ . It results that for a regular  $n$ - simplex :

$$
\max_F\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T_n)} = \frac{\sqrt{n(n + 1)}}{\sqrt{n(n + 1)}} = \sqrt{\frac{n - 1}{n + 1}}.
$$

If  $\Delta_{n} = \mathrm{Conv}(0,e_{1},\dots,e_{n})$  , then  $\textstyle |{\Delta_n|} = \frac{1}{n!}$  , and  $\begin{array}{r}{|\partial \Delta_n| = \frac{n}{(n - 1)!} +\frac{\sqrt{n}}{(n - 1)!}} \end{array}$  , hence  $\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta_{n}) =$ $n + \sqrt{n}$  . There are two kinds of facets : one is  $\Delta_{n - 1}$  , the other one is  $T_{n - 1}$  . Their isoperimetric ratios are respectively  $\mathrm{I s o p}(T_{n - 1}) = \sqrt{n(n - 1)}$  and  $\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta_{n - 1}) = n - 1 + \sqrt{n - 1} >\mathrm{I s o p}(T_{n - 1})$  . Therefore :

$$
\max_F\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta_n)} = \frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta_{n - 1})}{\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta_n)} = \frac{n - 1 + \sqrt{n - 1}}{n + \sqrt{n}}.
$$

Note that  $\begin{array}{r}\max_F\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(\Delta_n)} >\max_F\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T_n)} \end{array}$  . One may conjecture that  $\begin{array}{r}\max_F\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T_n)} = \min_T\max_F\frac{\mathrm{I s o p}(T F)}{\mathrm{I s o p}(T\Delta_n)} \end{array}$  i.e. that the (maximal) ratio is minimal when the simplex is in its John's position.

Finally, we remark that Proposition 2 yields a more concise proof of the following result, which states that having infinitely many facets, is an excluding condition.