Let  $\lambda_{t} = V_{1}(t) / V_{0}$ , and  $\mu_{t} = V_{n - 1}(t) / V_{n}(t)$  (which are both well- defined and positive, as long as  $t > t_0$ ). Then, using Brunn- Minkowski's inequality :

$$
(V_{1} - V_{0})\sum_{r = 0}^{n - 1}\lambda_{t}^{r} = \frac{V_{1}^{n} - V_{0}^{n}}{V_{0}^{n - 1}}\geq \frac{V_{n}V_{0}^{n - 1} - V_{0}^{n}}{V_{0}^{n - 1}} = V_{n} - V_{0}. \tag{BM1}
$$

And symmetrically :

$$
(V_{n - 1} - V_{n})\sum_{r = 0}^{n - 1}\mu_{t}^{r} = \frac{V_{n - 1}^{n} - V_{n}^{n}}{V_{n}^{n - 1}} >\frac{V_{0}V_{n}^{n - 1} - V_{n}^{n}}{V_{n}^{n - 1}} = V_{0} - V_{n}. \tag{BM2}
$$

Therefore (combining the above two)

$$
V_{1} - V_{0}\geq \alpha_{t}(V_{n} - V_{n - 1})\quad \mathrm{where~}\alpha_{t} = \frac{\sum_{r = 0}^{n - 1}\mu_{t}^{r}}{\sum_{r = 0}^{n - 1}\lambda_{t}^{r}}.
$$

Since  $W_{t}\to K$  as  $t\to 0$  (for the Hausdorff distance), continuity of  $V_{n}(.)$  implies that  $V_{k}(t)\to V_{0}$  (for all  $k\leq n$  ), while (weak) continuity of  $(L\mapsto S_L)$  implies that  $S_{W_t}\to S_K$  (for the weak topology on Radon measures on the sphere). Therefore  $\alpha_{t}\to 1$  , while

$$
\begin{array}{rlr}{\frac{V_n - V_{n - 1}}{t} = \frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}\frac{(h_{W_t} - h_K)(u)}{t} dS_{W_t}(u)}\\ & & = \frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{W_t}(u)\to \frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_K(u) \end{array}
$$

where we used that  $h_{W_t}(u) = h_K(u) + tf(u)$  for  $S_{W_t}$  - a.e.  $u\in \Omega$  . Hence,

$$
\lim_{t\to 0^{+}}\frac{V_{1} - V_{0}}{t}\geq \left(\lim_{t\to 0^{+}}\alpha_{t}\right)\left(\lim_{t\to 0^{+}}\frac{V_{n} - V_{n - 1}}{t}\right) = \frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u).
$$

Similarly, for all  $\begin{array}{r}t_0< t< 0:\frac{V_1 - V_0}{t}\geq \frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_K(u) \end{array}$  , while combining BM1 and BM2 yields

$$
\lim_{t\to 0^{+}}\frac{V_{1} - V_{0}}{t}\leq \left(\lim_{t\to 0^{-}}\alpha_{t}\right)\left(\lim_{t\to 0^{-}}\frac{V_{n} - V_{n - 1}}{t}\right) = \frac{1}{n}\int_{\Omega}f(u)dS_{K}(u).
$$

We recall the statement of the (almost- sure) pointwise convergence Lemma 2 (which we used in the proof of Proposition 1), and provide a simple proof here.

Lemma 4. Let  $(W_t)_t$  be Wulff- shape perturbations of a given convex body  $K$  , with respect to  $(\Omega ,f)$  Then for  $S_{K}$  - almost every  $u\in \mathbb{S}^{n - 1}$  ..

$$
\left.\frac{\mathrm{d}h_{W_t}(u)}{\mathrm{d}t}\right|_{t = 0} = \lim_{t\to 0}\frac{h_{W_t}(u) - h_K(u)}{t} = f(u). \tag{6}
$$

Proof. First, recall that, for all  $u\in \mathbb{S}^{n - 1}$  , the map  $(t\mapsto h_{W_t}(u))$  is concave on  $]t_0, + \infty [$  , where  $t_0 = t_0(K,\Omega ,f) = \inf \{t\in \mathbb{R}:|W_t|_n > 0\}$

Indeed, Let  $t_0< t_1< t_2$  , and let  $\lambda \in (0,1)$  . Let  $x\in (1 - \lambda)W_{t_1} + \lambda W_{t_2}$  , and let  $u\in \Omega$  . Let  $x_{i}\in W_{t_{i}}$ $i = 1,2$  , such that  $x = (1 - \lambda)x_{1} + \lambda x_{2}$  . Denote  $t_{\lambda}\coloneqq (1 - \lambda)t_{1} + \lambda t_{2}$  . Then

$$
\langle x,u\rangle = (1 - \lambda)\langle x_1,u\rangle +\lambda \langle x_2,u\rangle \leq (1 - \lambda)h_{W_{t_1}}(u) + \lambda h_{W_{t_2}}(u)\leq h_K(u) + i\lambda f(u).
$$

As this holds for any  $u\in \Omega$  , one concludes that  $(1 - \lambda)W_{t_1} + \lambda W_{t_2}\subset W_{t_\lambda}$  , from which concavity (on the domain  $]t_0, + \infty [$  of  $(t\mapsto h_{W_t}(u))$  , for any fixed  $u\in \mathbb{S}^{n - 1}$  , readily follows.

In particular, for any  $u\in \mathbb{S}^{n - 1}$  , the map  $(t\mapsto h_{W_t}(u))$  is concave on a neighborhood of  $t = 0$  implying that  $\begin{array}{r}\lim_{t\to 0^{+}}\frac{(h_{W_t} - h_K)(u)}{t} \end{array}$  and  $\begin{array}{r}\lim_{t\to 0^{- }}\frac{(h_{W_t} - h_K)(u)}{t} \end{array}$  exist for any  $u\in \mathbb{S}^{n - 1}$  . We now explain how to deduce that right and left derivative (at  $t = 0$  ) coincide, for  $S_{K}$  - a.e.  $u\in \mathbb{S}^{n - 1}$  , from lemma 1.