finite automata [7, 14]. One of the most famous longstanding open problems in automata theory, known as Cerný Conjecture, states that for a given synchronizing DFA with  $n$  states one can always find a synchronizing word of length at most  $(n - 1)^2$ . This conjecture was proven for numerous classes of automata, but the problem is still not solved in general case. The concept of synchronization has been also considered in coding theory [3, 8], parts orienting in manufacturing [5, 15], testing of reactive systems [19] and Markov Decision Processes [11, 12].

Allowing no outgoing transitions from some states for certain letters helps us to model a system for which certain actions cannot be accomplished while being in a specified state. This leads to the problem of finding a synchronizing word for a finite automaton, where transition function is not defined for all states. Notice that this is the most frequent case, if we use automata to model real- world systems. In practice, it rarely happens that a real system can be modeled with a DFA where transition function is total. The transition function is usually a partial one. This fact motivated many researchers to investigate the properties of partial finite automata relevant to practical problems of synchronization.

We know that, in general case, checking if a partial automaton can be synchronized is PSPACE- complete [13] even for binary alphabet [26] and those facts are essential in our latter considerations.

In this paper we present a public key cryptosystem utilizing fact, that checking if the PFA is carefully synchronizing is PSPACE- complete. This is however not the first attempt of trying to develop asymmetric cryptosystems with the notion of finite automata. Public key cryptography on finite automata with output is discussed in [21] and uses the notion of invertible automata to provide the hard computational problem, inevitable to design such cryptosystem.

The paper is organized as follows. In the section 2 we provide with the basic notions and facts about synchronization of automata. In the sections 3 and 4 we present basic method of encryption and decryption using our cryptosystem. In the section 5 we state couple of additional improvements to ensure better security. Finally we conclude the paper in the section 6 along with possible further research to the topic.

# 2 Preliminaries

Partial finite automaton (PFA) is an ordered tuple  $\mathcal{A} = (Q,\Sigma ,\delta)$ , where  $\Sigma$  is a finite set of letters,  $Q$  is a finite set of states and  $\delta :Q\times \Sigma^{*}\to Q$  is a transition function, possibly not everywhere defined. In this definition we omit initial and final states, since they are not relevant to the problem of synchronization. For  $w\in \Sigma^{*}$  and  $q\in Q$  we define  $\delta (q,w)$  inductively:  $\delta (q,\epsilon) = q$  and  $\delta (q,w) = \delta (\delta (q,a),w)$  for  $a\in \Sigma$ , where  $\epsilon$  is the empty word and  $\delta (q,a)$  is defined. A word  $w\in \Sigma^{*}$  is called carefully synchronizing if there exists  $\overline{q}\in Q$  such that for every  $q\in Q$ ,  $\delta (q,w) = \overline{q}$  and all transitions  $\delta (q,w^{\prime})$ , where  $w^{\prime}$  is any prefix of  $w$ , are defined. A PFA is called carefully synchronizing if it