[73] T. Udelhoven et al., "Retrieving the bioenergy potential from maize crops using hyperspectral remote sensing," Remote Sens., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 254- 273, 2013. [74] X. Kang, Z. Fei, P. Duan, and S. Li, "Pog model- based hyperspectral image defogging," IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., vol. 60, 2022, Art. no. 5512512. [75] A. S. Laliberte, M. A. Goforth, C. M. Steel, and A. Rango, "Multispectral remote sensing from unmanned aircraft: Image processing workflows and applications for rangeland environments," Remote Sens., vol. 3, no. 11, pp. 2529- 2551, 2011. [76] K. Whitehead and C. H. Hugenholtz, "Remote sensing of the environment with small unmanned aircraft systems (UASs), Part 1: A review of progress and challenges," J. Unmanned Veh. Syst., vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 69- 85, 2014. [77] M. J. Barsley, J. J. Settle, M. A. Cutten, D. R. Lobb, and E. Toston, "The PROBA/CHRIS mission: A low- cost smallsat for hyperspectral multiangle observations of the Earth surface and atmosphere," IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., vol. 42, no. 7, pp. 1512- 1520, Jul. 2004. [78] P. Jarecke and L. Liao, "Radiometric performance characterization of the Hyperion imaging spectrometer instrument," in Proc. Conf. Characterization Radiometric Calibration Remote Sens., 1999. [79] W. Zhang and S. Liu, "Applications of the small satellite constellation for environment and disaster monitoring and forecasting," Int. J. Disaster Risk Sci., vol. 1, pp. 9- 16, 2010. [80] C. Galeazzi, A. Sacchetti, A. Cisbani, and G. Babini, "The PRISMA program," in Proc. IEEE Int. Geosci. Remote Sens. Symp., 2008, pp. IV- 105- IV- 108. [81] H. Kaufmann et al., "Environmental mapping and analysis program (EnMAP)—Recent advances and status," in Proc. IEEE Int. Geosci. Remote Sens. Symp., 2008, pp. IV- 109- IV- 112. [82] S. Chien, D. Silverman, A. G. Davies, and D. Mandl, "Onboard science processing concepts for the HyspIRI mission," IEEE Intell. Syst., vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 12- 19, Nov./Dec. 2009. [83] S. Lu, B. Wu, N. Yan, and H. Wang, "Water body mapping method with HJ- 1A/B satellite imagery," Int. J. Appl. Earth Observ. Geoinf., vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 428- 434, 2011. [84] D. H. Peardtshion, S. Pignatti, U. Grissman- Ran, and E. Ben- Dor, "PRISMA sensor evaluation: A case study of mineral mapping performance over Makhtesh Ramon, Israel," Int. J. Remote Sens., vol. 42, no. 15, pp. 5882- 5914, 2021. [85] "PRISMA (hyperspectral)," eoPortal, 2012. Accessed: Sep. 7, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.eoportal.org/satellite- missions/prismahyperspectral[86] M. Teke, H. S. Deveci, O. Haliloglu, S. Z. Gurbuz, and U. Sakarya, "A short survey of hyperspectral remote sensing applications in agriculture," in Proc. 6th Int. Conf. Recent Adv. Space Technol., 2013, pp. 171- 176. [87] "EnMAP (Environmental Monitoring and Analysis Program)," eoPortal, 2012. Accessed: Sep. 7, 2023. [online]. Available: https://www.eoportal.org/satellite- missions/enmap[88] C. M. Lee et al., "An introduction to the nasa hyperspectral infrared imager (HyspIRI) mission and preparatory activities," Remote Sens. Environ., vol. 167, pp. 6- 19, 2015. [89] S. Moharana and S. Dutta, "Spatial variability of chlorophyll and nitrogen content of rice from hyperspectral imagery," J. Photogrammetry Remote Sens., vol. 122, pp. 17- 29, 2016. [90] P. S. Thenkabail, I. Mariotto, M. K. Guemma, E. M. Middleton, D. R. Landis, and K. F. Huemnrich, "Selection of hyperspectral narrowbands (HNBs) and composition of hyperspectral two- band vegetation indices (HVI)s for biophysical characterization and discrimination of crop types using field reflectance and Hyperion/EO- 1 data," IEEE J. Sel. Topics Appl. Earth Observ. Remote Sens., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 427- 439, Apr. 2013. [91] A. Bannari, K. Staenz, C. Champagne, and K. S. Khurshid, "Spatial variability mapping of crop residue using Hyperion (EO- 1) hyperspectral data," Remote Sens., vol. 7, no. 6, pp. 8107- 8127, 2015. [92] A. Apan, A. Held, S. Phinn, and J. Markley, "Detecting sugarcane 'orange rust' disease using EO- 1 Hyperion hyperspectral imagery," Int. J. Remote Sens., vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 489- 498, 2004. [93] C. Gomez, R. A. V. Rossel, and A. B. McBratney, "Soil organic carbon prediction by hyperspectral remote sensing and field Vis- NIR spectroscopy: An Australian case study," Geoderma, vol. 146, nos. 3/4, pp. 403- 411, 2008. [94] H. Liu, B. Bruning, T. Garnett, and B. Berger, "Hyperspectral imaging and 3D technologies for plant phenotyping: From satellite to close- range sensing," Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 175, 2020, Art. no. 105621.

[95] I. A. Huqqani and K. Khurshid, "Comparative study of supervised classification of urban area hyperspectral satellite imagery," J. Space Technol., vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 7- 10, 2014. [96] C. Yang, J. H. Everitt, Q. Du, B. Luo, and J. Chanussot, "Using high- resolution airborne and satellite imagery to assess crop growth and yield variability for precision agriculture," Proc. IEEE, vol. 101, no. 3, pp. 582- 592, Mar. 2013. [97] S. Bandopadhyay, A. Rastogi, and R. Juszczak, "Review of top- of- canopy sun- induced fluorescence (SIF) studies from ground, UAV, airborne to spaceborne observations," Sensors, vol. 20, no. 4, 2020, Art. no. 1144. [98] D. Pimentel, R. Zuniga, and D. Morrison, "Update on the environmental and economic costs associated with alien- invasive species in the United States," Ecol. Econ., vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 273- 288, 2005. [99] M. M. Lopez et al., "Innovative tools for detection of plant pathogenic viruses and bacteria," Int. Microbiol., vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 233- 243, 2003. [100] S. Sankaran, A. Mishra, R. Ehsani, and C. Davis, "A review of advanced techniques for detecting plant diseases," Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 72, no. 1, pp. 1- 13, 2010. [101] Y. Fang and R. P. Ramasamy, "Current and prospective methods for plant disease detection," Biosensors, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 537- 561, 2015. [102] R. D. Graham, R. M. Welch, and H. E. Bouis, "Addressing micronutrient malnutrition through enhancing the nutritional quality of staple foods: Principles, perspectives and knowledge gaps," in Adv. Agronomy, vol. 70, pp. 77- 142, 2001. [103] T. Fairhurst and A. Dobermann, "Rice in the global food supply," World, vol. 5, pp. 454- 349, 2002. [104] M. Figueroa, K. E. Hammond- Kosack, and P. S. Solomon, "A review of wheat diseases—A field perspective," Mol. Plant Pathol., vol. 19, no. 6, pp. 1523- 1536, 2018. [105] E. T. Nuss and S. A. Tunumihardjo, "Maize: A paramount staple crop in the context of global nutrition," Comprehensive Rev. Food Sci. Food Saf., vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 417- 436, 2010. [106] F. Schneider et al., "A methodological approach for the on- site quantification of food losses in primary production: Austrian and German case studies using the example of potato harvest," Waste Manage., vol. 86, pp. 106- 113, 2019. [107] A. Pathak, R. Kupnis, S. Solomon, R. Kumar, S. Srivastava, and P. Singh, "Sugar beet: A historical perspective in Indian context," Sugar Tech, vol. 16, pp. 125- 132, 2014. [108] R. Bro, "Exploratory study of sugar production using fluorescence spectroscopy and multi- way analysis," Chemometrics Intell. Lab. Syst., vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 135- 147, 1999. [109] C. Loganes, S. Ballah, and C. Minto, "Main properties of canola oil components: A descriptive review of current knowledge," Open Agriculture J., vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 69- 74, 2016. [110] G. Brookes, T.- H. Yu, S. Tokgoz, and A. Elobeid, "The production and price impact of biotech corn, canola, and soybean crops," in AgBioForum, vol. 13, pp. 25- 52, 2010. [111] N. Sabir and B. Singh, "Protected cultivation of vegetables in global arena: A review," Indian J. Agricultural Sci., vol. 83, no. 2, pp. 123- 135, 2013. [112] J. Wijnands, "The international competitiveness of fresh tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers," in Proc. Int. Congr. Greenhouse Vegetables, Prod. Chain Fresh Tomatoes, Peppers, Cucumbers, 2001, pp. 79- 90. [113] A. Hadidi, G. Vidalakis, and T. Sano, "Economic significance of fruit tree and grapevine voreids," in Vireoids and Satellites. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier, 2017, pp. 15- 25. [114] R. Ahmad, B. Hussain, and T. Ahmad, "Fresh and dry fruit production in Himalayan Kashmir, sub- Himalayan Jammu and trans- Himalayan Ladakh, India," in H. Ilyon, vol. 7, no. 1, 2021, Art. no. e05835. [115] W. E. Nganje, D. A. Bangsund, F. L. Leisritz, W. W. Wilson, and N. M. Tiapo, "Estimating the economic impact of a crop disease: The case of fusarium head blight in us wheat and barley," in Proc. Nat. Fusarium Head Blight Forum, 2002, pp. 275- 281. [116] A. P. Sathe et al., "Role of silicon in elevating resistance against sheath blight and blast diseases in rice (Oryza Sativa L.)," Plant Physiol. Biochem., vol. 166, pp. 128- 139, 2021. [117] S. Ahuja and M. Payak, "Symptoms and signs of banded leaf and sheath blight of maize," Phytoparasitica, vol. 10, pp. 41- 49, 1982. [118] D. Mishra, R. S. Rajout, N. W. Zaidi, and H. Singh, "Sheath blight and drought stress management in rice (Oryza Sativa) through trichoderma SPP," Indian Phytopathol., vol. 73, pp. 71- 77, 2020. [119] S. Devi and G. Sharma, "Blast disease of rice caused by Magnaporthe grisea: A review," Asam Univ. J. Sci. Technol., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 144- 154, 2010.