[166] S. R. Delwiche, J. R. Stommel, M. S. Kim, B. T. Vinyard, and C. Esquerre, "Hyperspectral fluorescence imaging for shelf life evaluation of fresh- cut bell and jalapeno pepper," Scientia Horticulturae, vol. 246, pp. 749- 758, 2019. [167] J. C. Diaz- Perez and K. S. John, "Bell pepper (Capsicum annum L.) under colored shade nets: Plant growth and physiological responses," HortScience, vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 1795- 1801, 2019. [168] R. Delph, "Fungi associated with capsicum annum," SFGATE. Accessed: Jul. 20, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://homeguides.sfgate.com/fungi- associated- capsicum- annum- 41604. html. [169] W. Wang, C. Li, E. W. Tollner, R. D. Gitaitis, and G. C. Rains, "Shortwave infrared hyperspectral imaging for detecting sour skin (Burkholderia cepacia)- infected onions," J. Food Eng., vol. 109, no. 1, pp. 38- 48, 2012. [170] J. Abdulridha, O. Batuman, and Y. Ampatzidis, "UAV- based remote sensing techniques to detect citrus odor indices utilizing hyperspectral imaging and machine learning," Remote Sens., vol. 11, no. 11, 2019, Art. no. 1373. [171] E.- C. Oerke, K. Herzog, and R. Toepfer, "Hyperspectral phenotyping of the reaction of grapevine genotypes to plasmopara viticola," J. Exp. Botany, vol. 67, no. 18, pp. 5529- 5543, 2016. [172] E. Doman, "7 most common grapevine diseases," Wine Cooler Direct, Oct. 2015. Accessed: Jul. 20, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://learn.winecoolerdirect.com/common- grapevine- diseases [173] S. Sladojevic, M. Arsenovic, A. Anderla, D. Culibrk, and D. Stefanovic, "Deep neural networks based recognition of plant diseases by leaf image classification," Comput. Intell. Neurosci., vol. 2016, 2016, Art. no. 3289801. [174] A. Mitra, S. Jarugula, G.- A. Hoheisel, and R. A. Naidu, "First report of tobacco ringspot virus in highbush blueberry in Washington state," Plant Dis., vol. 105, no. 9, 2021, Art. no. 2739. [175] M. Latha and S. Jaya, "Detection of septora spot on blueberry leaf images using SVM classifier," ICTACT J. Image Data Process, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 2015- 2019, 2019. [176] L. Wan, H. Li, C. Li, A. Wang, Y. Yang, and P. Wang, "Hyperspectral sensing of plant diseases: Principle and methods," Agronomy, vol. 12, no. 6, 2022, Art. no. 1451. [177] L. Taez, E. Zeiger, J. M. Moller, and A. Murphy, Plant Physiology and Development. Sunderland, MA, USA: Sinauer Assoc. Incorporated, 2015. [178] H. Lichtenthaler, "Chlorophylls end catotenoids: Pigments of photosynthetic bio membranes," Methods Enhimil., vol. 148, pp. 350- 382, 1987. [179] M. N. Merzlyak, A. A. Gitelson, S. I. Pogosyan, L. Lekhimena, and O. B. Chivkunova, "Light- induced pigment degradation in leaves and ripening fruits studied in situ with reflectance spectroscopy," Physiologia Plantarum, vol. 104, no. 4, pp. 661- 667, 1998. [180] R. F. Carvalho, M. Takaki, and R. A. Azevedo, "Plant pigments: The many faces of light perception," Acta Physiologiae Plantarum, vol. 33, pp. 241- 248, 2011. [181] M. Shuaibu, W. S. Lee, J. Schueller, P. Gader, Y. K. Hong, and S. Kim, "Unsupervised hyperspectral band selection for apple Marssonina blotch detection," Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 148, pp. 45- 53, 2018. [182] A. A. Gitelson, M. N. Merzlyak, and O. B. Chivkunova, "Optical properties and nondestructive estimation of anthocyanin content in plant leaves," Photochem. Photobiol., vol. 74, no. 1, pp. 38- 45, 2001. [183] A. Guo et al., "Identification of wheat yellow rust using spectral and texture features of hyperspectral images," Remote Sens., vol. 12, no. 9, 2020, Art. no. 1419. [184] J. J. Sousa et al., "UAV- based hyperspectral monitoring using push- broom and snapshot sensors: A multisite assessment for precision viticulture applications," Sensors, vol. 22, no. 17, 2022, Art. no. 6574. [185] M. K. Griffin and H.- h. K. Burke, "Compensation of hyperspectral data for atmospheric effects," Lincoln Lab. J., vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 29- 54, 2003. [186] B.- C. Gao, C. Davis, and A. Goetz, "A review of atmospheric correction techniques for hyperspectral remote sensing of land surfaces and ocean color," in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Geosci. Remote Sens., 2006, pp. 1979- 1981. [187] A. Rinnan, F. Van Den Berg, and S. B. Engelsen, "Review of the most common pre- processing techniques for near- infrared spectra," TrAC Trends Anal. Chem., vol. 28, no. 10, pp. 1201- 1222, 2009. [188] M. Vidal and J. M. Amigo, "Pre- processing of hyperspectral images. Essential steps before image analysis," Chemometrics Intell. Lab. Syst., vol. 117, pp. 138- 148, 2012. [189] K. C. Lawrence, B. Park, W. R. Windham, and C. Mao, "Calibration of a pushbroom hyperspectral imaging system for agricultural inspection," Trans. ASAE, vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 513- 521, 2005.

[190] Y. Tao and Z. Wen, "An adaptive spherical image transform for high- speed fruit defect detection," Trans. ASAE, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 241- 246, 1999. [191] J. Gomez- Sanchis, E. Moltó, G. Camps- Valls, L. Gomez- Chova, N. Aleixos, and J. Blasco, "Automatic correction of the effects of the light source on spherical objects: an application to the analysis of hyperspectral images of citrus fruits," J. Food Eng., vol. 85, no. 2, pp. 191- 200, 2008. [192] G. Polder, G. Van De Heijden, H. Van der Voet, and I. Young, "Measuring surface distribution of carotenes and chlorophyll in ripening tomatoes using imaging spectrometry," Postharvest Biol. Technol., vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 117- 129, 2004. [193] H. Fu, L. Bian, X. Cao, and J. Zhang, "Hyperspectral imaging from a raw mosaic image with end- to- end learning," Opt. Exp., vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 314- 324, 2020. [194] S. Li et al., "Extinction of maize settling number information based on UAV imagery," Trans. Chin. Soc. Agricultural Eng., vol. 34, no. 22, pp. 69- 77, 2018. [195] J. Zhang et al., "Crop classification and LAI estimation using original and resolution- reduced images from two consumer- grade cameras," Remote Sens., vol. 9, no. 10, 2017, Art. no. 1054. [196] J. Li et al., "Detection of early decayed oranges based on multispectral principal component image combining both bi- dimensional empirical mode decomposition and watershed segmentation method," Postharvest Biol. Technol., vol. 158, 2019, Art. no. 110986. [197] G. Sun et al., "Gravitation- based edge detection in hyperspectral images," Remote Sens., vol. 9, no. 6, 2017, Art. no. 592. [198] D. Al Williams et al., "A method for automatic segmentation and splitting of hyperspectral images of raspberry plants collected in field conditions," Plant Methods, vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 1- 12, 2017. [199] D. Bashish, M. Braik, and S. Bani- Ahmad, "Detection and classification of leaf diseases using K- means- based segmentation and neural- networks- based classification," Int. Technol. J., vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 267- 275, 2011. [200] A. H. B. A. Wahab, R. Zahari, and T. H. Lim, "Detecting diseases in chilli plants using K- means segmented support vector machine," in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Imag., Signal Process., Commun., 2019, pp. 57- 61. [201] T. Hemalatha and S. P. Kailasam, "Study of Solanum Lycopersicum L. disease detection using watershed segmentation technique," UGC Care Group 1 J., vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 1- 6, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Piramu- Kailasam/publication/366558691_STUDY_OF_SOLANUM_LYCOPERSICUM_L_DISEASE_DETECTION_USING_WATERSHED_SEGMENTATION_TECHNIQ UE/links/63a6c6d0ca99660eb9e2d28/STUDY- OF- SOLANUM- LYCO PERSICUM- L- DISEASE- DETECTION- USING- WATERSHED- SEGMENTATION- TECHNIQUE.pdf [202] S. Bankar, A. Dube, P. Kadam, and S. Deokule, "Plant disease detection techniques using canny edge detection & color histogram in image processing," Int. J. Comput. Sci. Inf. Technol, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 1165- 1168, 2014. [203] P. Revathi and M. Hemalatha, "Advance computing enrichment evaluation of cotton leaf spot disease detection using image edge detection," in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Comput., Commun. Netw. Technol., 2012, pp. 1- 5. [204] T. N. Tete and S. Kimmu, "Detection of plant disease using threshold, K- mean cluster and ANN algorithm," in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Convergence Technol., 2017, pp. 523- 531. [205] H. Pallathakka et al., "Application of machine learning techniques in rice leaf disease detection," Mater. Today: Proc., vol. 51, pp. 2277- 2280, 2022. [206] L. Feng et al., "Investigation on data fusion of multisource spectral data for rice leaf disease identification using machine learning methods," Front. Plant Sci., vol. 11, 2020, Art. no. 577063. [207] P. K. Yadav, T. Burks, Q. Frederick, J. Qin, M. Kim, and M. A. Ritenour, "Citrus disease detection using convolution neural network generated features and softmax classifier on hyperspectral image data," Front. Plant Sci., vol. 13, 2022, Art. no. 1043712. [208] X. Zhao, J. Zhang, Y. Huang, Y. Tian, and L. Yuan, "Detection and discrimination of disease and insect stress of tea plants using hyperspectral imaging combined with wavelet analysis," Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 193, 2022, Art. no. 106717. [209] R. A. Doshi, R. L. King, and G. W. Lawrence, "Wavelet- SOM in feature extraction of hyperspectral data for classification of nematode species," in Proc. IEEE Int. Geosci. Remote Sens. Symp., 2007, pp. 2818- 2821. [210] X. Zhang et al., "Cucumber powdery mildew detection method based on hyperspectral- terahertz," Front. Plant Sci., vol. 13, 2022, Art. no. 1035731. [211] A.- K. Mahlein et al., "Development of spectral indices for detecting and identifying plant diseases," Remote Sens. Environ., vol. 128, pp. 21- 30, 2013.