TABLE V SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURES FOR AGRICULTURAL ROBOT FOR DIFFERENT APPLICATIONS  

<table><tr><td>Application areas</td><td>Type of robots</td><td>Crops/animals</td><td>Production cycle/task</td><td>References</td><td>Architecture/Pattern</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="8">Arable farming</td><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Ploughing, seeding, fertilizing, etc.</td><td>[30]</td><td>Subsumption architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Navigation in the crop field</td><td>[28]</td><td>Hybrid architecture</td></tr><tr><td>Heterogeneous, AAV, and AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Weed management</td><td>[31]</td><td>Distributed and hierarchical architec-ture</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Navigation for precision farming</td><td>[32]</td><td>Sense–plan–act</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Processing and monitoring field</td><td>[33]</td><td>Cloud-based</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>monitoring and scheduling</td><td>[34]</td><td>Lambda architecture (LambdaAgrloT)</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Big data processing</td><td>[35]</td><td>Cloud-based</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>Wheat/maize</td><td>Weed management</td><td>[36]</td><td>FIWARE and Apache Kafka-based</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="10">Horticulture</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>Greenhouse harvesting</td><td>[29]</td><td>Distributed architecture for mobile nav-igation</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>Orange</td><td>Orchard image data collection</td><td>[37]</td><td>Distributed high level architecture-based</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>Vineyards</td><td>Navigation</td><td>[38]</td><td>Deliberative architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>Vineyards</td><td>Navigation</td><td>[39]</td><td>Ethical architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>-</td><td>Navigation of fleet of mobile robots</td><td>[40]</td><td>Distribute and hybrid architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AGV</td><td>Lettuce and tomato</td><td>Weed management</td><td>[41], [42]</td><td>Sense–plan–act</td></tr><tr><td>AGV mounted</td><td>Cherry tomato</td><td>Greenhouse harvesting</td><td>[43]</td><td>Sense–plan–act</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Apples</td><td>Orchard harvesting</td><td>[44], [45]</td><td>Sense–plan–act</td></tr><tr><td>AGV mounted</td><td>Orange</td><td>Orchard harvesting</td><td>[46], [47]</td><td>Sense–plan–act</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Pepper</td><td>Greenhouse harvesting</td><td>[48], [49]</td><td>Sense–plan–act</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="4">Animal husbandry</td><td>IoT-based</td><td>Cow</td><td>Methane emissions</td><td>[50]</td><td>Azure cloud platform</td></tr><tr><td>AAVs</td><td>Cattle/sheep</td><td>Monitoring</td><td>[51], [52], [53]</td><td>Layered architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AAVs</td><td>Cattle/sheep</td><td>Monitoring</td><td>[54]</td><td>FANETs architecture</td></tr><tr><td>Mobile robot</td><td>-</td><td>Service purpose</td><td>[55]</td><td>Distributed architecture</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="6">Food processing</td><td>AAR</td><td>3-D printed ob-jects</td><td>Sorting</td><td>[56]</td><td>Microservices architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Pork</td><td>Pork cutting</td><td>[57]</td><td>Physical human-robot architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Poultry</td><td>Pick and place of meat pieces</td><td>[58]</td><td>Sense–plan–act architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Fish</td><td>Fish pick and place</td><td>[59]</td><td>Sense–plan–act architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Salmon fish</td><td>Remove pin bones of the fillet</td><td>[60]</td><td>Sense–plan–act architecture</td></tr><tr><td>AAR</td><td>Poultry</td><td>Rehang whole bird</td><td>[61]</td><td>hybrid distributed architecture</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Food packaging</td><td>Delta robot</td><td>Fish</td><td>Fish fillet packing</td><td>[60]</td><td>Distributed architecture</td></tr><tr><td>Delta robot</td><td>Poultry</td><td>Poultry fillet packing</td><td>[61]</td><td>Distributed architecture</td></tr></table>

robots ([43]), apple harvesting robots ([44], [45]), orange harvesting robots ([46], [47]), and sweet peppers harvesting robots ([48], [49]), weed management robots ([41], [62]). However, the majority of previous research has been put to the test in either a simulation ([63], [64]) or in a laboratory environment ([46]). Very few works have been tested in real- world field environment ([41], [49], [65], [66]). In addition, the architecture for these works follows the conventional sense- plan- act paradigm. There is a small amount of work that is focused on the learning model, which is to learn a new world on one's own and behave accordingly.

3) Animal husbandry: IoT-based architectures are used for tasks related to monitoring cow methane emissions. Layered architecture [52] and flying ad hoc networks (FANETs) architecture [54] are employed for cattle and sheep monitoring. The drone is envisioned as operating at the edge in the proposed design, and its built-in processing power may be utilized. [53] also proposed a layered architecture for livestock management. FANET are frequently

created by connecting many UAVs [54]. High- speed (30 to  $460\mathrm{km / h}$  ) and 3- D movable nodes are characteristics of FANET. FANETs have particular design and protocol constraints because of the mobility and restricted resources of UAVs. Service robots are being used more and more in agriculture. They work in both agriculture and animal husbandry. Chikurtev [55] presented a distributed software architecture for controlling a modular service robot for animal husbandry. The purpose of this design was to allow interinstalled module communication. Services and microservices are the foundation for the requests and replies that are exchanged between the various components.

4) Food processing: AARs are employed for various food processing tasks. Microservices architecture, physical human-robot architecture, sense-plan-act architecture, and hybrid distributed architecture are applied for tasks, such as sorting, pork cutting, meat piece pick-and-place, fish handling, and salmon fillet processing. The microservices architecture is utilized for the removal of pin bones from salmon fillets.