[17] M. D. O'Toole, L. A. Marsh, J. L. Davidson, Y. M. Tan, D. W. Armitage, and A. J. Peyton, "Non- contact multi- frequency magnetic induction spectroscopy system for industrial- scale bio- impedance measurement," Meas. Sci. Technol., vol. 26, no. 3, 2015, Art. no. 035102. [18] J. R. Reitz, Foundations of Electromagnetic Theory. Noida, India: Pearson Education India, 2009. [19] M. Rehman, B. A. Abu Izneid, M. Z. Abdullah, and M. R. Arshad, "Assessment of quality of fruits using impedance spectroscopy," Int. J. Food Sci. Technol., vol. 46, no. 6, pp. 1303- 1309, 2011. [20] D. El Khaled, N. Castellano, J. Gazquez, R. G. Salvador, and F. Manzano- Agugliaro, "Cleaner quality control system using bioimpedance methods: A review for fruits and vegetables," J. Cleaner Prod., vol. 140, pp. 1749- 1762, 2017. [21] VEGA- Level, List of Dielectric Constants. Accessed: Jan. 29, 2024. [Online]. Available: http://www.wepeldecma.com/contact/images/Dielectric_ Constants.pdf [22] F. Harker and J. Dunlop, "Electrical impedance studies of nectarines during coolstorage and fruit ripening," Postharvest Biol. Technol., vol. 4, no. 1- 2, pp. 125- 134, 1994. [23] M. D. O'Toole, L. A. Marsh, J. L. Davidson, Y. M. Tan, D. W. Armitage, and A. J. Peyton, "Rapid non- contact relative permittivity measurement of fruits and vegetables using magnetic induction spectroscopy," in Proc. IEEE Sensors Appl. Symp., 2015, pp. 1- 6. [24] M. D. Ferreira, S. A. Sargent, J. K. Brecht, and C. K. Chandler, "Strawberry fruit resistance to simulated handling," Scientia Agricola, vol. 65, pp. 490- 495, 2008. [25] M. Al- Dairi, P. B. Pathare, R. Al- Yahyai, and A. Al- Mahdouri, "Effect on physiological properties of banana fruit based on pendulum impact test and storage," Curr. Res. Food Sci., vol. 7, 2023, Art. no. 100640. [26] D. C. Montgomery, Design and Analysis of Experiments. Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley, 2017. [27] M. Soltani, R. Alimardani, and M. Omid, "Prediction of banana quality during ripening stage using capacitance sensing system," Australian J. Crop Sci., vol. 4, no. 6, pp. 443- 447, 2010. [28] J. Ilic, "Wood: Electrical properties," in Encyclopedia of Materials: Science and Technology, K. J. Buschow et al., (Eds.), Oxford, U.K.: Elsevier, 2001, pp. 9629- 9633. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B0080431526017447 [29] A. Chowdhury, P. Singh, T. K. Bera, D. Ghoshal, and B. Chakraborty, "Electrical impedance spectroscopic study of mandarin orange during ripening," J. Food Meas. Characterization, vol. 11, pp. 1654- 1664, 2017. [30] P. Iba, "Fruit quality evaluation using electrical impedance spectroscopy," Ph.D. dissertation, Free Univ. of Bozen- Bolzano, Bolzano, Italy, 2021. [31] V. Raja and S. Shanmugasundaram, "Development of capacitance based nondestructive ripening indices measurement system for sapota (Manilkara zapota)," J. Food Process Eng., vol. 43, no. 3, 2020, Art. no. e13301. [32] N. Siriboon and P. Banlusilip, "A study on the ripening process of 'Namwa' banana," AU J. Technol., vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 159- 164, 2004. [33] J. Marriott, M. Robinson, and S. K. Karikari, "Starch and sugar transformation during the ripening of plantains and bananas," J. Sci. Food Agriculture, vol. 32, no. 10, pp. 1021- 1026, 1981. [34] S. P. Burg and E. A. Burg, "Relationship between ethylene production and ripening in bananas," Botanical Gazette, vol. 126, no. 3, pp. 200- 204, 1965. [35] G. Tucker et al., "Ethylene and fruit softening," Food Qual. Saf., vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 253- 267, 2017.

[36] L. F. Goulao and C. M. Oliveira, "Cell wall modifications during fruit ripening: When a fruit is not the fruit," Trends Food Sci. Technol., vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 4- 25, 2008. [37] S. Matsumoto, N. Sugino, T. Watanabe, and H. Kitazawa, "Bioelectrochemical impedance analysis and the correlation with mechanical properties for evaluating bruise tolerance differences to drop shock in strawberry cultivars," Eur. Food Res. Technol., vol. 248, no. 3, pp. 807- 813, 2022. [38] V. Demidchik, D. Stralsova, S. S. Medvedev, G. A. Pozhvanov, A. Sokolik, and V. Yurin, "Stress- induced electrolyte leakage: The role of k+ permeable channels and involvement in programmed cell death and metabolic adjustment," J. Exp. Botany, vol. 65, no. 5, pp. 1259- 1270, 2014. [39] I. Ferguson and C. Watkins, "Ion relations of apple fruit tissue during fruit development and ripening. I. cation leakage," Funct. Plant Biol., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 155- 164, 1981. [40] T. Irinzeoni, F. Tsatsas, D. Hamansakis, Y. Sato, and T. Uchino, "Effects of hot water treatment on electrical properties, cell membrane structure and texture of potato tubers," J. Food Eng., vol. 162, pp. 56- 62, 2015. [41] M. I. Hussain, A. El- Reblawy, N. Akhtar, and A. S. Elwakil, "Electrical impedance spectroscopy in plant biology," Sustain. Agriculture Rev., vol. 52, pp. 395- 416, 2021. [42] E. Azzarello, E. Masl, and S. Mancuso, "Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy," in Plant Electrophysiology: Methods and Cell Electrophysiology. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2012, pp. 205- 223. [43] D. R. Fogue, R. M. Peris, J. I. Civera, L. C. Rodrigo, and N. Laguarda- Miro, "Monitoring freeze- damage in grapefruit by electric bioimpedance spectroscopy and electric equivalent models," Horticulturae, vol. 8, no. 3, 2022, Art. no. 218. [44] R. J. Romani, I. K. Yu, L. L. Ku, L. K. Fisher, and N. Dehgan, "Cellular senescence, radiation damage to mitochondria, and the compensatory response in ripening pear fruits," Plant Physiol., vol. 43, no. 7, pp. 1089- 1096, 1968. [45] M. R. Jimenez, P. Rallo, H. D. Rapoport, and M. P. Suarez, "Distribution and timing of cell damage associated with olive fruit bruising and its use in analyzing susceptibility," Postharvest Biol. Technol., vol. 111, pp. 117- 125, 2016. [46] Q. Xue, H. Li, J. Chen, and T. Du, "Fruit cracking in muskmelon: Fruit growth and biomechanical properties in different irrigation levels," Agricultural Water Marriage., vol. 293, 2024, Art. no. 108672. [47] E. Ahmadi, H. R. Ghassemzadeh, M. Sadeghi, M. Moghaddam, and S. Z. Neshat, "The effect of impact and fruit properties on the bruising of peach," J. Food Eng., vol. 97, no. 1, pp. 110- 117, 2010. [48] D. Martinez- Romero, M. Serrano, A. Carbonell, S. Castillo, F. Riquelme, and D. Valero, "Mechanical damage during fruit post- harvest handling: Technical and physiological implications," Production Practices and Quality Assessment of Food Crops: Quality Handling and Evaluation, R. Dris and S. M. Jain, Eds., Dordrecht, Netherlands: Springer, 2004, pp. 233- 252. [49] D. Zheng et al., "Packaging design to protect hongmeiren orange fruit from mechanical damage during simulated and road transportation," Horticulturae, vol. 8, no. 3, 2022, Art. no. 258. [50] A. A. Aziz et al., "Design of a capacitive sensor for oil palm fresh fruit bunch maturity grading," in Proc. IEEE 2nd Int. Conf. Electron. Des., 2014, pp. 443- 445. [51] J. Taghinezhad, R. Alimardani, and M. Soltani, "Prediction of banana volume using capacitive sensing method," Javad Taghinezhad et al./Elixir Agriculture, vol. 46, pp. 8418- 842, 2012. [52] S. A. Tajuddin, H. Saad, and R. Rosman, "Sapota sapodilla smart capacitive sensing system," in Proc. IEEE Symp. Comput. Inform., 2021, pp. 13- 18.