[52] N. Wakai and T. Yamashita. Deep single fisheye image camera calibration for over 180- degree projection of field of view. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision Workshops (ICCVW), pages 1174- 1183, 2021. 2, 3, 5, 7, 8[53] N. Wakai, S. Sato, Y. Ishii, and T. Yamashita. Rethinking generic camera models for deep single image camera calibration to recover rotation and fisheye distortion. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages 679- 698, 2022. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8[54] X. Wang, L. Bo, and L. Fuxin. Adaptive wing loss for robust face alignment via heatmap regression. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 6971- 6981, 2019. 3[55] Z. Wang and Jepson. A new closed- form solution for absolute orientation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 129- 134, 1994. 5[56] S.- E. Wei, V. Ramakrishna, T. Kanade, and Y. Sheikh. Convolutional pose machines. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 4724- 4732, 2016. 3[57] H. Wildenauer and B. Micusik. Closed form solution for radial distortion estimation from a single vanishing point. In Proceedings of the British Machine Vision Conference (BMVC), pages 106.1- 106.11, 2013. 1, 2, 3[58] J. Wu, L. Zhang, Y. Liu, and L. Chen. Real- time vanishing point detector integrating under- parameterized RANSAC and Hough transform. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 3712- 3721, 2021. 2[59] J. Yang, X. Dong, L. Liu, C. Zhang, J. Shen, and D. Yu. Recurring the Transformer for video action recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 14043- 14053, 2022. 1[60] F. Zhang, X. Zhu, H. Dai, M. Ye, and C. Zhu. Distribution- aware coordinate representation for human pose estimation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 7091- 7100, 2020. 4[61] T. Zheng, Y. Huang, Y. Liu, W. Tang, Z. Yang, D. Cai, and X. He. CLRNet: Cross layer refinement network for lane detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 888- 897, 2022. 1[62] Z. Zhong, L. Zheng, G. Kang, S. Li, and Y. Yang. Random Erasing data augmentation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2020. 6[63] Y. Zhou, H. Qi, J. Huang, and Y. Ma. NeurVPS: Neural vanishing point scanning via conic convolution. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2019. 2, 5[64] Y. Zhou, J. Huang, X. Dai, L. Luo, Z. Chen, and Y. Ma. HoliCity: A city- scale data platform for learning holistic 3D structures. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.03286, 2020. 2, 5