[28] K. Liao, C. Lin, Y. Zhao, and M. Xu. Model- free distortion rectification framework bridged by distortion distribution map. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (TIP), 29:3707- 3718, 2020. 3[29] K. Liao, C. Lin, and Y. Zhao. A deep ordinal distortion estimation approach for distortion rectification. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (TIP), 30:3362- 3375, 2021. 3[30] Y. Lin, R. Wiersma, S. L. Pintea, K. Hildebrandt, E. Eisenmann, and J. C. van Gemert. Deep vanishing point detection: Geometric priors make dataset variations vanish. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 6093- 6103, 2022. 2[31] L. Liu, H. Jiang, P. He, W. Chen, X. Liu, J. Gao, and J. Han. On the variance of the adaptive learning rate and beyond. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), pages 1- 14, 2020. 6[32] Y. Lochman, O. Dobosevych, R. Hryniv, and J. Pritts. Minimal solvers for single- view lens- distorted camera auto- calibration. In Proceedings of the IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), pages 2886- 2895, 2021. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8[33] M. Lopez- Antequera, R. Marı, P. Gargallo, Y. Kuang, J. Gonzalez- Jimenez, and G. Haro. Deep single image camera calibration with radial distortion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 11809- 11817, 2019. 2, 3, 5, 7, 8[34] M. Lourakis and G. Terzakis. Efficient absolute orientation revisited. In Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 5813- 5818, 2018. 5[35] X. Lu, J. Yao, H. Li, Y. Liu, and X. Zhang. 2- Line exhaustive searching for real- time vanishing point estimation in Manhattan world. In Proceedings of the IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), pages 345- 353, 2017. 2[36] K. Ludwig, P. Harzig, and R. Lienhart. Detecting arbitrary intermediate keypoints for human pose estimation with Vision Transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision Workshops (WACVW), pages 663- 671, 2022. 6[37] Z. Luo, Z. Wang, Y. Huang, L. Wang, T. Tan, and E. Zhou. Rethinking the heatmap regression for bottom- up human pose estimation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 13259- 13268, 2021. 4[38] P. Mirowski, A. Banki- Horvath, K. Anderson, D. Teplyashin, K. M. Hermann, M. Malinowski, M. K. Grimes, K. Simonyan, K. Kavukcuoglu, A. Zisserman, and R. Hadsell. The StreetLearn environment and dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.01292, 2019. 1, 2, 4, 5[39] D. Mortari, F. L. Markley, and P. Singla. Optimal linear attitude estimator. Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics (JGCD), 3:1619- 1627, 2007. 5[40] A. Paszke, S. Gross, F. Massa, A. Lerer, J. Bradbury, G. Chanan, T. Killeen, Z. Lin, N. Gimelshein, L. Antiga, A. Desmaison, A. Kopf, E. Yang, Z. DeVito, M. Raison, A.

Tejani, S. Chilamkurthy, B. Steiner, L. Fang, J. Bai, and S. Chintala. PyTorch: An imperative style, high- performance deep learning library. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), pages 8024- 8035, 2019. 7[41] J. Pritts, Z. Kukelova, V. Larsson, and O. Chum. Radially- distorted conjugate translations. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 1993- 2001, 2018. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8[42] O. Russakovsky, J. Deng, H. Su, J. Krause, S. Satheesh, S. Ma, Z. Huang, A. Karpathy, A. Khosla, M. Bernstein, A. C. Berg, and L. Fei- Fei. ImageNet large scale visual recognition challenge. International Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), 115(3):211- 252, 2015. 6[43] A. Sheshkus, A. Ingacheva, and D. Nikolaev. Vanishing points detection using combination of fast Hough transform and deep learning. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Vision (ICMV), 2017. 2[44] A. Sheshkus, A. Ingacheva, V. Arlazarov, and D. Nikolaev. HoughNet: Neural network architecture for vanishing points detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR), pages 844- 849, 2019. 2[45] Y. Shi, D. Zhang, J. Wen, X. Tong, H. Zhao, X. Ying, and H. Zha. Three orthogonal vanishing points estimation in structured scenes using convolutional neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), pages 3537- 3541, 2019. 2[46] G. Simon, A. Fond, and M.- O. Berger. A- contrario horizon- first vanishing point detection using second- order grouping laws. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages 323- 338, 2018. 2[47] K. Sun, B. Xiao, D. Liu, and J. Wang. Deep high- resolution representation learning for human pose estimation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 5686- 5696, 2019. 4, 6[48] J.- P. Tardif. Non- iterative approach for fast and accurate vanishing point detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 1250- 1257, 2009. 2[49] X. Tong, X. Ying, Y. Shi, R. Wang, and J. Yang. Transformer based line segment classifier with image context for real- time vanishing point detection in Manhattan world. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 6083- 6092, 2022. 2[50] T.- D. Truong, Q.- H. Bui, C. N. Duong, H.- S. Seo, S. L. Phung, X. Li, and K. Luu. DirecFormer: A directed attention in Transformer approach to robust action recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 19998- 20008, 2022. 1[51] R. Y. Tsai. A versatile camera calibration technique for high- accuracy 3D machine vision metrology using off- the- shelf TV cameras and lenses. IEEE Journal of Robotics and Automation (JRA), 3(4):323- 344, 1987. 1