# A SCENARIO DESCRIPTION

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Summarization</td></tr><tr><td>post_summary text_summary note_summary</td><td>Write a summary for a reddit post.
Write a summary for a piece of text.
Write a note to summarize a piece of text.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Exam Questions</td></tr><tr><td>math_reasoning exam_question_with_math exam_question_without_math Rewriting</td><td>Write an answer with the step-by-step reasoning process for a math question.
Solve an exam question (like fill-in-the-blank, multiple choice, problem solving, etc) with math involved.
Solve an exam question (like fill-in-the-blank, multiple choice, problem solving, etc) with no math involved.</td></tr><tr><td>text_simplification language_polling instructional Rewriting text correction paraphrasing</td><td>Reduce the complexity of the vocabulary and sentence structure of text while retaining its original meaning.
Polish a piece of text to make it more fluent, natural, and readable.
Rewrite a given text with a specific instruction.
Correct the potential errors in a piece of text.
Paraphrasing a given text.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Code</td></tr><tr><td>code_simplification code_generation explaining_code code correction Rewriting code_to_code_translation</td><td>Rewrite a piece of code to make it more concise and easy to understand.
Write a piece of code based on the given description.
Write an explanation for a piece of code.
Correct the potential errors in a piece of code or rewrite the code by user&#x27;s requirements.
Convert the given code into another programming language.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Creative Writing</td></tr><tr><td>writing_song_lyrics writing_social_media_post general_creative_writing counterfactual writing_personn essay writing_blog_post writing_advertisement writing_marketing_materials writing proseking_script</td><td>Write song lyrics.
Write a post that will be posted on social media such as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook or LinkedIn.
Conduct a creative writing task, like writing stories, poems, dramas, novels, screenplays, etc.
Answer questions or write texts under counterfactual premises.
Write an essay that explores topics through personal experiences, insights or understanding.
Write a blog post on the website.
Write an advertisement for a product or service.
Write marketing materials that help you communicate your brand&#x27;s products or services to your target market.
Write a specific presentation script for a public speech.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Functional Writing</td></tr><tr><td>writing_product_description writing_news_article writing_biography writing_legal_document writing_technical_document writing_job_application writing_scientific_paper general_functional写道 writing_cooking反过来</td><td>Write a product description that describes and explains your product or service.
Write a news article for the newspaper.
Write a biography for a person.
Write a legal document involving one or multiple parties that can be relied upon in court.
Write a technical document that describes the function and structure of a technical product.
Write a job application for your job search.
Write a scientific paper that shares your own original research work with other scientists.
Conduct a functional writing task, like proposals, reports, memos, resumes, polls, questionnaires, schedules, etc.
Write a cooking recipe that teaches people how to prepare a meal.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">General Communication</td></tr><tr><td>asking_ho why_question seeking_advice verifying_fact open_question analyzing_general explaining_general brainstorming planning roleplay chitchat recommendation value_judgment</td><td>Give relevant and complete instructions when users ask &#x27;how to do&#x27; something.
Respond well to users when they seek advice.
Verify if the given fact is true or false.
The user&#x27;s query is an open domain question with no attached passage or article.
Analyze a certain thing (like a topic, issue, material, text etc.) given by the user.
Explain something the user wants to know.
Pretend to be a specific person, character, profession or identity, and complete the required task on this basis.
Write a plan for an event or activity.
Chitchat with the user.
Give recommendations to users.
Provide a value judgment on a given topic or statement.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">NLP Tasks (including &quot;others&quot;)</td></tr><tr><td>ranking text_to_text_translation data_analysis classification_identification title_generation question_generation reading_comprehension keywords_extraction information_extraction topic_modeling</td><td>Sort some things, according to some criteria.
Translate the given text into another language.
Analyze certain data given by the user.
Classify or identify one or multiple objects given by the user into specific categories.
Generate a title for the given text or based on a description of the work.
Generate one or multiple questions based on the given topic or attached text.
Answer the questions that can be directly answered by the attached passage.
Extract the keywords from a piece of text.
Extract one or multiple user-specified categories of information from a piece of text attached in the user&#x27;s query.
Extract the high-level topics or themes from a given text, i.e., what kind of topics are discussed in the text.</td></tr></table>