You are writing critiques for a submitted response on a given user's query. Here is the data:

[BEGIN DATA] \*\*\* [Query]:{query} \*\*\* Response]:{response} \*\*\* [END DATA]

Here are the instructions you should follow: 1. You only need to write critiques on its shortcomings; there's no need to comment on its strengths. The critiques should be as specific as possible by quoting details from the response and query, and don't include the criterion name.

Table 12: Prompt used when collecting raw output for single- response evaluation from GPT- 4.

Write a meta- critique by combining the following two critiques for a submitted response on a given user's query, and grade the response:

[BEGIN DATA] \*\*\* [Query]:{query} \*\*\* Response]:{response} \*\*\* [Critique 1]:{critique 1} \*\*\* [Critique 2]:{critique 2} \*\*\* [END DATA]

You should give a meta- critique by merging the two critiques into a more comprehensive critique for the response in fluent language. After that, you should give a final rating for the response on a scale of 1 to 10 by strictly following this format: "[rating]", for example: "Rating: [5]".

Table 13: Prompt for asking GPT- 4 to combine two critiques to a comprehensive critique and give out final rating.

# G COMPLETE RESULTS AND CASES

Tab. 23 contains the complete comparison results of Fig. 3 (\$6.2).

Tab. 24[28] provide the comprehensive details of  $\S 6.4$  Tab. 24 shows the detailed ranking of Fig. 5 The complete cases of  $\S 6.4$  are shown in Tab. 25,28